\c 3
\p
\v 1 Now Moses was keeping the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian: and he led the flock to the back of the
wilderness, and came to the mountain of God, to Horeb.
\v 2 And the angel of Jehovah appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the
bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.
\v 3 And Moses said, I will turn aside now, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt.
\v 4 And when Jehovah saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses,
Moses. And he said, Here am I.
\v 5 And he said, Draw not near hither: put off your shoes from off your feet, for the place whereon you stand is holy
ground.
\v 6 Moreover he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid
his face; for he was afraid to look upon God.
\v 7 And Jehovah said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people that are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of
their taskmasters; for I know their sorrows;
\v 8 and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good
land and a large, to a land flowing with milk and honey; to the place of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite,
and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
\v 9 And now, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come to me: moreover I have seen the oppression wherewith the
Egyptians oppress them.
\v 10 Come now therefore, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring forth my people the children of Israel out
of Egypt.
\v 11 And Moses said to God, Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel
out of Egypt?
\v 12 And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be the token to thee, that I have sent thee: when you have
brought forth the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God upon this mountain.
\p
\v 13 And Moses said to God, Behold, when I come to the children of Israel, and shall say to them, The God of your
fathers has sent me to you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them?
\v 14 And God said to Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said, Thus shall you say to the children of Israel, I AM has sent me
to you.
\v 15 And God said moreover to Moses, Thus shall you say to the children of Israel, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the
God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you: this is my name forever, and this is my memorial
to all generations.
\v 16 Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say to them, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of
Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have surely visited you, and
seen that which is done to you in Egypt:
\v 17 and I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and
the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, to a land flowing with milk and honey.
\v 18 And they shall listen to your voice: and you shall come, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and you
shall say to him, Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us: and now let us go, we pray thee, three days’ journey
into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our God.
\v 19 And I know that the king of Egypt will not give you leave to go, no, not by a mighty hand.
\v 20 And I will put forth my hand, and strike Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof: and after that he
will let you go.
\v 21 And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians: and it shall come to pass, that, when you go, you shall
not go empty.
\v 22 But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold,
and raiment: and you shall put them upon your sons, and upon your daughters; and you shall despoil the Egyptians.