\c 4
\p
\v 1 And Moses answered and said, But, behold, they will not believe me, nor listen to my voice; for they will say, Jehovah
has not appeared to thee.
\v 2 And Jehovah said to him, What is that in your hand? And he said, A rod.
\v 3 And he said, Cast in on the ground. And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.
\v 4 And Jehovah said to Moses, Put forth your hand, and take it by the tail: (and he put forth his hand, and laid hold of it,
and it became a rod in his hand:)
\v 5 That they may believe that Jehovah, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,
has appeared to thee.
\v 6 And Jehovah said furthermore to him, Put now your hand into your bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he
took it out, behold, his hand was leprous, as white as snow.
\v 7 And he said, Put your hand into your bosom again. (And he put his hand into his bosom again; and when he took it out of his
bosom, behold, it was turned again as his other flesh.)
\v 8 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither listen to the voice of the first sign, that they will
believe the voice of the latter sign.
\v 9 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe even these two signs, neither listen to your voice, that you shall
take of the water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land: and the water which you take out of the river shall become
blood upon the dry land.
\p
\v 10 And Moses said to Jehovah, Oh, Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore, nor since you have spoken to your
servant; for I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.
\v 11 And Jehovah said to him, Who has made man’s mouth? Or who makes
a man dumb, or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Is it not I, Jehovah?
\v 12 Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth, and teach you what you shall speak.
\v 13 And he said, Oh, Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom you will send.
\v 14 And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Moses, and he said, Is there not Aaron your brother the Levite? I know that
he can speak well. And also, behold, he comes forth to meet thee: and when he sees thee, he will be glad in his heart.
\v 15 And you shall speak to him, and put the words in his mouth: and I will be with your mouth, and with his mouth, and will
teach you what you shall do.
\v 16 And he shall be your spokesman to the people; and it shall come to pass, that he shall be to you a mouth, and you
shall be to him as God.
\v 17 And you shall take in your hand this rod, wherewith you shall do the signs.
\v 18 And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father-in-law, and said to him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return to my
brethren that are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace.
\v 19 And Jehovah said to Moses in Midian, Go, return into Egypt; for all the men are dead that sought your life.
\v 20 And Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them upon an ass, and he returned to the land of Egypt: and Moses took the
rod of God in his hand.
\v 21 And Jehovah said to Moses, When you go back into Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the wonders which I
have put in your hand: but I will harden his heart and he will not let the people go.
\v 22 And you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says Jehovah, Israel is my son, my first-born:
\v 23 and I have said to thee, Let my son go, that he may serve me; and you have refused to let him go: behold, I will kill
your son, your first-born.
\v 24 And it came to pass on the way at the lodging-place, that Jehovah met him, and sought to kill him.
\v 25 Then Zipporah took a flint, and cut off the foreskin of her son, and cast it at his feet; and she said, Surely a
bridegroom of blood are you to me.
\v 26 So he let him alone. Then she said, A bridegroom of blood are
thou, because of the circumcision.
\p
\v 27 And Jehovah said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. And he went, and met him in the mountain of God, and
kissed him.
\v 28 And Moses told Aaron all the words of Jehovah wherewith he had sent him, and all the signs wherewith he had charged him.
\v 29 And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel:
\v 30 and Aaron spoke all the words which Jehovah had spoken to Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the people.
\v 31 And the people believed: and when they heard that Jehovah had visited the children of Israel, and that he had seen their
affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshipped.