\c 5
\p
\v 1 And afterward Moses and Aaron came, and said to Pharaoh, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, Let my people go, that
they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness.
\v 2 And Pharaoh said, Who is Jehovah, that I should listen to his voice to let Israel go? I know not Jehovah, and moreover
I will not let Israel go.
\v 3 And they said, The God of the Hebrews has met with us: let us go, we pray thee, three days’ journey into the wilderness,
and sacrifice to Jehovah our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with the sword.
\v 4 And the king of Egypt said to them, Wherefore do ye, Moses and Aaron, loose the people from their works? get you to
your burdens.
\v 5 And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens.
\v 6 And the same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying,
\v 7 You shall no more give the people straw to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for themselves.
\v 8 And the number of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, you shall lay upon them; you shall not diminish anything thereof:
for they are idle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God.
\v 9 Let heavier work be laid upon the men, that they may labor therein; and let them not regard lying words.
\p
\v 10 And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spoke to the people, saying, Thus says Pharaoh,
I will not give you straw.
\v 11 Go yourselves, get you straw where you can find it: for nothing of your work shall be diminished.
\v 12 So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw.
\v 13 And the taskmasters were urgent saying, Fulfil your works,
your daily tasks, as when there was straw.
\v 14 And the officers of the children of Israel, whom Pharaoh’s taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded,
Wherefore have you not fulfilled your task both yousterday and to-day, in making brick as heretofore?
\p
\v 15 Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest you thus with your
servants?
\v 16 There is no straw given to your servants, and they say to us, Make brick: and, behold, your servants are beaten; but the
fault is in your own people.
\v 17 But he said, You are idle, you are idle: therefore you say, Let us go and sacrifice to Jehovah.
\v 18 Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be given you, yout shall you deliver the number of bricks.
\v 19 And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were in evil case, when it was said, You shall not diminish
anything from your bricks, your daily tasks.
\v 20 And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh:
\v 21 and they said to them, Jehovah look upon you, and judge: because you have made our savor to be abhorred in the eyous of
Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to kill us.
\p
\v 22 And Moses returned to Jehovah, and said, Lord, wherefore have you dealt ill with this people? why is it that you have
sent me?
\v 23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has dealt ill with this people; neither have you delivered your
people at all.