\c 7
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Moses, See, I have made you as God to Pharaoh; and Aaron your brother shall be your prophet.
\v 2 You shall speak all that I command thee; and Aaron your brother shall speak to Pharaoh, that he let the children of
Israel go out of his land.
\v 3 And I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt.
\v 4 But Pharaoh will not listen to you, and I will lay my hand upon Egypt, and bring forth my hosts, my people the children
of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.
\v 5 And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah, when I stretch forth my hand upon Egypt, and bring out the children of
Israel from among them.
\v 6 And Moses and Aaron did so; as Jehovah commanded them, so did they.
\v 7 And Moses was fourscore years old, and Aaron fourscore and three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh.
\p
\v 8 And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
\v 9 When Pharaoh shall speak to you, saying, Show a wonder for you; then you shall say to Aaron, Take your rod, and cast
it down before Pharaoh, that it become a serpent.
\v 10 And Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and they did so, as Jehovah had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before
Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent.
\v 11 Then Pharaoh also called for the wise men and the sorcerers: and they also, the magicians of Egypt, did in like manner
with their enchantments.
\v 12 For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents: but Aaron’s rod swallowed up their rods.
\v 13 And Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he listened not to them; as Jehovah had spoken.
\p
\v 14 And Jehovah said to Moses, Pharaoh’s heart is stubborn, he refuseth to let the people go.
\v 15 Get you to Pharaoh in the morning; lo, he goes out to the water; and you shall stand by the river’s brink to meet
him; and the rod which was turned to a serpent shall you take in your hand.
\v 16 And you shall say to him, Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to thee, saying, Let my people go, that they
may serve me in the wilderness: and, behold, hitherto you have not hearkened.
\v 17 Thus says Jehovah, In this you shall know that I am Jehovah: behold, I will strike with the rod that is in my hand upon
the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.
\v 18 And the fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall become foul; and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink
water from the river.
\v 19 And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Take your rod, and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt, over their
rivers, over their streams, and over their pools, and over all their ponds of water, that they may become blood; and there
shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.
\p
\v 20 And Moses and Aaron did so, as Jehovah commanded; and he lifted up the rod, and struck the waters that were in the river,
in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood.
\v 21 And the fish that were in the river died; and the river became foul, and the Egyptians could not drink water from the
river; and the blood was throughout all the land of Egypt.
\v 22 And the magicians of Egypt did in like manner with their enchantments: and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he listened
not to them; as Jehovah had spoken.
\v 23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he lay even this to heart.
\v 24 And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water to drink; for they could not drink of the water of the
river.
\v 25 And seven days were fulfilled, after that Jehovah had struck the river.