\c 8
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, Go in to Pharaoh, and say to him, Thus says Jehovah, Let my people go, that they may
serve me.
\v 2 And if you refuse to let them go, behold, I will strike all your borders with frogs:
\v 3 and the river shall swarm with frogs, which shall go up and come into your house, and into your bedchamber, and upon your
bed, and into the house of your servants, and upon your people, and into your ovens, and into your kneading-troughs:
\v 4 and the frogs shall come up both upon thee, and upon your people, and upon all your servants.
\v 5 And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch forth your hand with your rod over the rivers, over the streams, and
over the pools, and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt.
\v 6 And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.
\v 7 And the magicians did in like manner with their enchantments, and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt.
\p
\v 8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Entreat Jehovah, that he take away the frogs from me, and from my
people; and I will let the people go, that they may sacrifice to Jehovah.
\v 9 And Moses said to Pharaoh, Have you this glory over me: against what time shall I entreat for thee, and for your
servants, and for your people, that the frogs be destroyed from you and your houses, and remain in the river only?
\v 10 And he said, Against to-morrow. And he said, Be it according to your word; that you may know that there is none like
to Jehovah our God.
\v 11 And the frogs shall depart from thee, and from your houses, and from your servants, and from your people; they shall remain
in the river only.
\v 12 And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cried to Jehovah concerning the frogs which he had brought upon
Pharaoh.
\v 13 And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses; and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the courts, and out of the
fields.
\v 14 And they gathered them together in heaps; and the land stank.
\v 15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart, and listened not to them, as Jehovah had spoken.
\p
\v 16 And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your rod, and strike the dust of the earth, that it may become
lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
\v 17 And they did so; and Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and struck the dust of the earth, and there were lice upon
man, and upon beast; all the dust of the earth became lice throughout all the land of Egypt.
\v 18 And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not: and there were lice upon man,
and upon beast.
\v 19 Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God: and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he listened not
to them; as Jehovah had spoken.
\p
\v 20 And Jehovah said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh; lo, he comes forth to the water;
and say to him, Thus says Jehovah, Let my people go, that they may serve me.
\v 21 Else, if you will not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies upon thee, and upon they servants, and upon
your people, and into your houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon
they are.
\v 22 And I will set apart in that day the land of Goshen, in which my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to
the end you may know that I am Jehovah in the midst of the earth.
\v 23 And I will put a division between my people and your people: by to-morrow shall this sign be.
\v 24 And Jehovah did so; and there came grievous swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants’ houses: and
in all the land of Egypt the land was corrupted by reason of the swarms of flies.
\p
\v 25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, Go ye, sacrifice to your God in the land.
\v 26 And Moses said, It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to Jehovah our God: lo,
shall we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and will they not stone us?
\v 27 We will go three days’ journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to Jehovah our God, as he shall command us.
\v 28 And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that you may sacrifice to Jehovah your God in the wilderness; only you shall not go
very far away: entreat for me.
\v 29 And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will entreat Jehovah that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh,
from his servants, and from his people, to-morrow: only let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people go
to sacrifice to Jehovah.
\v 30 And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and entreated Jehovah.
\v 31 And Jehovah did according to the word of Moses; and he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and
from his people; there remained not one.
\v 32 And Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and he did not let the people go.