\c 9
\p
\v 1 Then Jehovah said to Moses, Go in to Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Let my people
go, that they may serve me.
\v 2 For if you refuse to let them go, and will hold them still,
\v 3 behold, the hand of Jehovah is upon your cattle which are in the field, upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels,
upon the herds, and upon the flocks: there shall be a very grievous murrain.
\v 4 And Jehovah shall make a distinction between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt; and there shall nothing die of
all that belongs to the children of Israel.
\v 5 And Jehovah appointed a set time, saying, To-morrow Jehovah shall do this thing in the land.
\v 6 And Jehovah did that thing on the morrow; and all the cattle of Egypt died; but of the cattle of the children of Israel
died not one.
\v 7 And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not so much as one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. But the heart of Pharaoh
was stubborn, and he did not let the people go.
\p
\v 8 And Jehovah said to Moses and to Aaron, Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward
heaven in the sight of Pharaoh.
\v 9 And it shall become small dust over all the land of Egypt, and shall be a boil breaking forth with blains upon man and
upon beast, throughout all the land of Egypt.
\v 10 And they took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses sprinkled it up toward heaven; and it became a
boil breaking forth with blains upon man and upon beast.
\v 11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils; for the boils were upon the magicians, and upon all
the Egyptians.
\v 12 And Jehovah hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he listened not to them, as Jehovah had spoken to Moses.
\v 13 And Jehovah said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and say to him, Thus says
Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me.
\v 14 For I will this time send all my plagues upon your heart, and upon your servants, and upon your people; that you may
know that there is none like me in all the earth.
\v 15 For now I had put forth my hand, and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you had been cut off from the
earth:
\v 16 but in very deed for this cause have I made you to stand, to show you my power, and that my name may be declared
throughout all the earth.
\v 17 As yet exaltest you yourself against my people, that you will not let them go?
\v 18 Behold, to-morrow about this time I will cause it to rain a very grievous hail, such as has not been in Egypt since the
day it was founded even until now.
\v 19 Now therefore send, haveen in your cattle and all that you have in the field;
for every man and beast that shall be found in the field, and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down
upon them, and they shall die.
\v 20 He that feared the word of Jehovah among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses.
\v 21 And he that regarded not the word of Jehovah left his servants and his cattle in the field.
\p
\v 22 And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch forth your hand toward heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon
man, and upon beast, and upon every herb of the field, throughout the land of Egypt.
\v 23 And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven: and Jehovah sent thunder and hail, and fire ran down to the earth; and
Jehovah rained hail upon the land of Egypt.
\v 24 So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous, such as had not been in all the land of Egypt since it
became a nation.
\v 25 And the hail struck throughout all the land of Egypt all that was in the field, both man and beast; and the hail struck
every herb of the field, and brake every tree of the field.
\v 26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, was there no hail.
\p
\v 27 And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said to them, I have sinned this time: Jehovah is righteous, and
I and my people are wicked.
\v 28 Entreat Jehovah; for there has been enough of these mighty thunderings and hail; and I will let you go, and you
shall stay no longer.
\v 29 And Moses said to him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands to Jehovah; the thunders
shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that you may know that the earth is Jehovah’s.
\v 30 But as for you and your servants, I know that you will not yout fear Jehovah God.
\v 31 And the flax and the barley were smitten: for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was in bloom.
\v 32 But the wheat and the spelt were not smitten: for they were not grown up.
\v 33 And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands to Jehovah: and the thunders and hail ceased,
and the rain was not poured upon the earth.
\v 34 And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart,
he and his servants.
\v 35 And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the children of Israel go, as Jehovah had spoken by Moses.