\c 10
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Moses, Go in to Pharaoh: for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I may
show these my signs in the midst of them,
\v 2 and that you may tell in the ears of your son, and of your son’s son, what things I have wrought upon Egypt, and my
signs which I have done among them; that you may know that I am Jehovah.
\v 3 And Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, How long will
you refuse to humble yourself before me? let my people go, that they may serve me.
\v 4 Else, if you refuse to let my people go, behold, to-morrow will I bring locusts into your border:
\v 5 and they shall cover the face of the earth, so that one shall not be able to see the earth: and they shall eat the residue
of that which is escaped, which remains to you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which grows for you out of the
field:
\v 6 and your houses shall be filled, and the houses of all your servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; as neither your
fathers nor your fathers’ fathers have seen, since the day that they were upon the earth to this day. And he turned, and went
out from Pharaoh.
\v 7 And Pharaoh’s servants said to him, How long shall this man be a snare to us? let the men go, that they may serve
Jehovah their God: know you not yet that Egypt is destroyed?
\v 8 And Moses and Aaron were brought again to Pharaoh: and he said to them, Go, serve Jehovah your God; but who are they
that shall go?
\v 9 And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old; with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with
our herds will we go; for we must hold a feast to Jehovah.
\v 10 And he said to them, So be Jehovah with you, as I will let you go, and your little ones: look to it; for evil is before
you.
\v 11 Not so: go now you that are men, and serve Jehovah; for that is what you desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh’s
presence.
\p
\v 12 And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the
land of Egypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail has left.
\v 13 And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and Jehovah brought an east wind upon the land all that day,
and all the night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.
\v 14 And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the borders of Egypt; very grievous were they;
before them there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.
\v 15 For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened; and they did eat every herb of the land, and
all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left: and there remained not any green thing, either tree or herb of the field,
through all the land of Egypt.
\v 16 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, I have sinned against Jehovah your God, and against you.
\v 17 Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and entreat Jehovah your God, that he may take away from me
this death only.
\v 18 And he went out from Pharaoh, and entreated Jehovah.
\v 19 And Jehovah turned an exceeding strong west wind, which took up the locusts, and drove them into the Red Sea; there
remained not one locust in all the border of Egypt.
\v 20 But Jehovah hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he did not let the children of Israel go.
\p
\v 21 And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even
darkness which may be felt.
\v 22 And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days;
\v 23 they saw not one another, neither rose any one from his place for three days: but all the children of Israel had light in
their dwellings.
\v 24 And Pharaoh called to Moses, and said, Go ye, serve Jehovah; only let your flocks and your herds be stayed: let your
little ones also go with you.
\v 25 And Moses said, You must also give into our hand sacrifices and burnt-offerings, that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our
God.
\v 26 Our cattle also shall go with us; there shall not a hoof be left behind: for thereof must we take to serve Jehovah our
God; and we know not with what we must serve Jehovah, until we come thither.
\v 27 But Jehovah hardened Pharaoh’s heart, and he would not let them go.
\v 28 And Pharaoh said to him, Get you from me, take heed to thyself, see my face no more; for in the day you see my face
you shall die.
\v 29 And Moses said, You have spoken well. I will see your face again no more.