\c 12
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
\v 2 This month shall be to you the beginning of months: it shall be the first month of the year to you.
\v 3 Speak you to all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth
day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb, according to their fathers’ houses, a lamb for a
household:
\v 4 and if the household be too little for a lamb, then shall he and his neighbor next to his house take one according to
the number of the souls; according to every man’s eating you shall make your count for the lamb.
\v 5 Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a youar old: you shall take it from the sheep, or from the goats:
\v 6 and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month; and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel
shall kill it at even.
\v 7 And they shall take of the blood, and put it on the two side-posts and on the lintel, upon the houses wherein they shall
eat it.
\v 8 And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and unleavened bread; with bitter herbs they shall eat it.
\v 9 Eat not of it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roast with fire; its head with its legs and with the inwards thereof.
\v 10 And you shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; but that which remains of it until the morning you shall burn
with fire.
\v 11 And thus shall you eat it: with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat
it in haste: it is Jehovah’s passover.
\v 12 For I will go through the land of Egypt in that night, and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man
and beast; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments: I am Jehovah.
\v 13 And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where you are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you,
and there shall no plague be upon you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Egypt.
\v 14 And this day shall be to you for a memorial, and you shall keep it a feast to Jehovah: throughout your generations you
shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever.
\p
\v 15 Seven days shall you eat unleavened bread; even the first day you shall put away leaven out of your houses: for whoever
eats leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.
\v 16 And in the first day there shall be to you a holy convocation, and in the seventh day a holy convocation; no manner of
work shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat, that only may be done by you.
\v 17 And you shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this selfsame day have I brought your hosts out of
the land of Egypt: therefore shall you observe this day throughout your generations by an ordinance for ever.
\v 18 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, you shall eat unleavened bread, until the one
and twentieth day of the month at even.
\v 19 Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: for whoever eats that which is leavened, that soul shall be
cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a sojourner, or one that is born in the land.
\v 20 You shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall you eat unleavened bread.
\p
\v 21 Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said to them, Draw out, and take you lambs according to your
families, and kill the passover.
\v 22 And you shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two
side-posts with the blood that is in the basin; and none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning.
\v 23 For Jehovah will pass through to strike the Egyptians; and when he sees the blood upon the lintel, and on the two
side-posts, Jehovah will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to come in to your houses to strike you.
\v 24 And you shall observe this thing for an ordinance to you and to your sons for ever.
\v 25 And it shall come to pass, when you are come to the land which Jehovah will give you, according as he has promised, that
you shall keep this service.
\v 26 And it shall come to pass, when your children shall say to you, What mean you by this service?
\v 27 that you shall say, It is the sacrifice of Jehovah’s passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in
Egypt, when he struck the Egyptians, and delivered our houses. And the people bowed the head and worshipped.
\v 28 And the children of Israel went and did so; as Jehovah had commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.
\p
\v 29 And it came to pass at midnight, that Jehovah struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of
Pharaoh that sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive that was in the dungeon; and all the firstborn of cattle.
\v 30 And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt;
for there was not a house where there was not one dead.
\v 31 And he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up, get you forth from among my people, both you and the
children of Israel; and go, serve Jehovah, as you have said.
\v 32 Take both your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone; and bless me also.
\v 33 And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, to send them out of the land in haste; for they said, We are all dead men.
\v 34 And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading-troughs being bound up in their clothes upon their
shoulders.
\v 35 And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses; and they asked of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and
jewels of gold, and raiment.
\v 36 And Jehovah gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they let them have what they asked. And they
despoiled the Egyptians.
\p
\v 37 And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot that were men, besides
children.
\v 38 And a mixed multitude went up also with them; and flocks, and herds, even very much cattle.
\v 39 And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt; for it was not leavened, because they
were thrust out of Egypt, and could not tarry, neither had they prepared for themselves any victuals.
\v 40 Now the time that the children of Israel lived in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years.
\v 41 And it came to pass at the end of four hundred and thirty years, even the selfsame day it came to pass, that all the
hosts of Jehovah went out from the land of Egypt.
\v 42 It is a night to be much observed to Jehovah for bringing them out from the land of Egypt: this is that night of
Jehovah, to be much observed of all the children of Israel throughout their generations.
\p
\v 43 And Jehovah said to Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of the passover: there shall no foreigner eat thereof;
\v 44 but every man’s servant that is bought for money, when you have circumcised him, then shall he eat thereof.
\v 45 A sojourner and a hired servant shall not eat thereof.
\v 46 In one house shall it be eaten; you shall not carry forth anything of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall you
break a bone thereof.
\v 47 All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
\v 48 And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the passover to Jehovah, let all his males be circumcised, and
then let him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the land: but no uncircumcised person shall eat
thereof.
\v 49 One law shall be to him that is home-born, and to the stranger that sojourneth among you.
\v 50 Thus did all the children of Israel; as Jehovah commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.
\v 51 And it came to pass the selfsame day, that Jehovah did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their
hosts.