\c 13
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Sanctify to me all the first-born, whatever opens the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of beast:
it is mine.
\p
\v 3 And Moses said to the people, Remember this day, in which you came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by
strength of hand Jehovah brought you out from this place: there shall no leavened bread be eaten.
\v 4 This day you go forth in the month Abib.
\v 5 And it shall be, when Jehovah shall bring you into the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the
Hivite, and the Jebusite, which he sware to your fathers to give thee, a land flowing with milk and honey, that you shall
keep this service in this month.
\v 6 Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh day shall be a feast to Jehovah.
\v 7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten throughout the seven days; and there shall no leavened bread be seen with thee, neither
shall there be leaven seen with thee, in all your borders.
\v 8 And you shall tell your son in that day, saying, It is because of that which Jehovah did for me when I came forth out of
Egypt.
\v 9 And it shall be for a sign to you upon your hand, and for a memorial between your eyes, that the law of Jehovah may be
in your mouth: for with a strong hand has Jehovah brought you out of Egypt.
\v 10 You shall therefore keep this ordinance in its season from year to year.
\p
\v 11 And it shall be, when Jehovah shall bring you into the land of the Canaanite, as he sware to you and to your fathers,
and shall give it thee,
\v 12 that you shall set apart to Jehovah all that opens the womb, and every firstling which you have that comes of a
beast; the males shall be Jehovah’s.
\v 13 And every firstling of an ass you shall redeem with a lamb; and if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its
neck: and all the firstborn of man among your sons shall you redeem.
\v 14 And it shall be, when your son asks you in time to come, saying, What is this? that you shall say to him, By
strength of hand Jehovah brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage:
\v 15 and it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that Jehovah killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both
the firstborn of man, and the firstborn of beast: therefore I sacrifice to Jehovah all that opens the womb, being males;
but all the firstborn of my sons I redeem.
\v 16 And it shall be for a sign upon your hand, and for frontlets between your eyes: for by strength of hand Jehovah brought
us forth out of Egypt.
\p
\v 17 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led them not by the way of the land of the Philistines,
although that was near; for God said, Lest perhaps the people repent when they see war, and they return to Egypt:
\v 18 but God led the people about, by the way of the wilderness by the Red Sea: and the children of Israel went up armed out
of the land of Egypt.
\v 19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had straitly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely
visit you; and you shall carry up my bones away hence with you.
\v 20 And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.
\v 21 And Jehovah went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to lead them the way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to give
them light, that they might go by day and by night:
\v 22 the pillar of cloud by day, and the pillar of fire by night, departed not from before the people.