\c 14
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, that they turn back and encamp before Pihahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, before
Baal-zephon: over against it shall you encamp by the sea.
\v 3 And Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are entangled in the land, the wilderness has shut them in.
\v 4 And I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and he shall follow after them; and I will get me honor upon Pharaoh, and upon all his
host: and the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah. And they did so.
\v 5 And it was told the king of Egypt that the people were fled: and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was changed
towards the people, and they said, What is this we have done, that we have let Israel go from serving us?
\v 6 And he made ready his chariot, and took his people with him:
\v 7 and he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over all of them.
\v 8 And Jehovah hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel: for the children of
Israel went out with a high hand.
\v 9 And the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army,
and overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baal-zephon.
\p
\v 10 And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians were marching after
them; and they were sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out to Jehovah.
\v 11 And they said to Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt, have you taken us away to die in the wilderness?
wherefore have you dealt thus with us, to bring us forth out of Egypt?
\v 12 Is not this the word that we spoke to you in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians? For it were
better for us to serve the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.
\v 13 And Moses said to the people, Fear you not, stand still, and see the salvation of Jehovah, which he will work for you
to-day: for the Egyptians whom you have seen to-day, you shall see them again no more for ever.
\v 14 Jehovah will fight for you, and you shall hold your peace.
\p
\v 15 And Jehovah said to Moses, Wherefore crie you to me? speak to the children of Israel, that they go forward.
\v 16 And lift you up your rod, and stretch out your hand over the sea, and divide it: and the children of Israel shall go into
the midst of the sea on dry ground.
\v 17 And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall go in after them: and I will get me honor upon
Pharaoh, and upon all his host, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen.
\v 18 And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have gotten me honor upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his
horsemen.
\v 19 And the angel of God, who went before the camp of Israel, removed and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud removed
from before them, and stood behind them:
\v 20 and it came between the camp of Egypt and the camp of Israel; and there was the cloud and the darkness, yet gave it light
by night: and the one came not near the other all the night.
\p
\v 21 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and Jehovah caused the sea to go
back by a strong east wind all the night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.
\v 22 And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground: and the waters were a wall to them on
their right hand, and on their left.
\v 23 And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them into the midst of the sea, all Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots, and his
horsemen.
\v 24 And it came to pass in the morning watch, that Jehovah looked forth upon the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of
fire and of cloud, and discomfited the host of the Egyptians.
\v 25 And he took off their chariot wheels, and they drove them heavily; so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face
of Israel; for Jehovah fights for them against the Egyptians.
\p
\v 26 And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon
their chariots, and upon their horsemen.
\v 27 And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its strength when the morning appeared; and the
Egyptians fled against it; and Jehovah overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea.
\v 28 And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, even all the host of Pharaoh that went in after them
into the sea; there remained not so much as one of them.
\v 29 But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea; and the waters were a wall to them on their
right hand, and on their left.
\v 30 Thus Jehovah saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the
sea-shore.
\v 31 And Israel saw the great work which Jehovah did upon the Egyptians, and the people feared Jehovah: and they believed in
Jehovah, and in his servant Moses.