\c 18
\p
\v 1 Now Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses’ father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his
people, how that Jehovah had brought Israel out of Egypt.
\v 2 And Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, took Zipporah, Moses’ wife, after he had sent her away,
\v 3 and her two sons; of whom the name of the one was Gershom; for he said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land:
\v 4 and the name of the other was Eliezer; for he said, The God of my father was my help, and delivered me from the
sword of Pharaoh.
\v 5 And Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses into the wilderness where he was encamped, at
the mount of God:
\v 6 and he said to Moses, I, your father-in-law Jethro, am come to thee, and your wife, and her two sons with her.
\v 7 And Moses went out to meet his father-in-law, and did obeisance, and kissed him: and they asked each other of their
welfare; and they came into the tent.
\v 8 And Moses told his father-in-law all that Jehovah had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel’s sake, all the
travail that had come upon them by the way, and how Jehovah delivered them.
\v 9 And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which Jehovah had done to Israel, in that he had delivered them out of the hand
of the Egyptians.
\v 10 And Jethro said, Blessed be Jehovah, who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of
Pharaoh; who has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
\v 11 Now I know that Jehovah is greater than all gods; yea, in the thing wherein they dealt proudly against them.
\v 12 And Jethro, Moses’ father-in-law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of
Israel, to eat bread with Moses’ father-in-law before God.
\p
\v 13 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the people: and the people stood about Moses from the morning
to the evening.
\v 14 And when Moses’ father-in-law saw all that he did to the people, he said, What is this thing that you do to the
people? why sit you yourself alone, and all the people stand about you from morning to even?
\v 15 And Moses said to his father-in-law, Because the people come to me to inquire of God:
\v 16 when they have a matter, they come to me; and I judge between a man and his neighbor, and I make them know the statutes
of God, and his laws.
\v 17 And Moses’ father-in-law said to him, The thing that you do is not good.
\v 18 You will surely wear away, both you, and this people that is with thee: for the thing is too heavy for thee; you are
not able to perform it yourself alone.
\v 19 Listen now to my voice, I will give you counsel, and God be with you: be you for the people to God-ward, and bring
you the causes to God:
\v 20 and you shall teach them the statutes and the laws, and shall show them the way wherein they must walk, and the work
that they must do.
\v 21 Moreover you shall provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating unjust gain; and place
such over them, to be rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens:
\v 22 and let them judge the people at all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring to thee, but
every small matter they shall judge themselves: so shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear
the burden with thee.
\v 23 If you shall do this thing, and God command you so, then you shall be able to endure, and all this people also shall
go to their place in peace.
\v 24 So Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law, and did all that he had said.
\v 25 And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds,
rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
\v 26 And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes they brought to Moses, but every small matter they judged
themselves.
\v 27 And Moses let his father-in-law depart; and he went his way into his own land.