\c 19
\p
\v 1 In the third month after the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the
wilderness of Sinai.
\v 2 And when they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the wilderness of Sinai, they encamped in the wilderness; and
there Israel encamped before the mount.
\v 3 And Moses went up to God, and Jehovah called to him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shall you say to the house of
Jacob, and tell the children of Israel:
\v 4 You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles’ wings, and brought you to myself.
\v 5 Now therefore, if you will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then you shall be mine own possession from among all
peoples: for all the earth is mine:
\v 6 and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the
children of Israel.
\p
\v 7 And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and set before them all these words which Jehovah commanded him.
\v 8 And all the people answered together, and said, All that Jehovah has spoken we will do. And Moses reported the words of
the people to Jehovah.
\v 9 And Jehovah said to Moses, Lo, I come to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you, and
may also believe you for ever. And Moses told the words of the people to Jehovah.
\v 10 And Jehovah said to Moses, Go to the people, and sanctify them today and to-morrow, and let them wash their
garments,
\v 11 and be ready against the third day; for the third day Jehovah will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount
Sinai.
\v 12 And you shall set bounds to the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves, that you go not up into the mount,
or touch the border of it: whoever touches the mount shall be surely put to death:
\v 13 no hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, he shall not live:
when the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount.
\v 14 And Moses went down from the mount to the people, and sanctified the people; and they washed their garments.
\v 15 And he said to the people, Be ready against the third day: come not near a woman.
\p
\v 16 And it came to pass on the third day, when it was morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud
upon the mount, and the voice of a trumpet exceeding loud; and all the people that were in the camp trembled.
\v 17 And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.
\v 18 And mount Sinai, the whole of it, smoked, because Jehovah descended upon it in fire; and the smoke thereof ascended as
the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly.
\v 19 And when the voice of the trumpet waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.
\v 20 And Jehovah came down upon mount Sinai, to the top of the mount: and Jehovah called Moses to the top of the mount; and
Moses went up.
\v 21 And Jehovah said to Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest they break through to Jehovah to gaze, and many of them
perish.
\v 22 And let the priests also, that come near to Jehovah, sanctify themselves, lest Jehovah break forth upon them.
\v 23 And Moses said to Jehovah, The people cannot come up to mount Sinai: for you did charge us, saying, Set bounds about
the mount, and sanctify it.
\v 24 And Jehovah said to him, Go, get you down; and you shall come up, you, and Aaron with you: but let not the priests
and the people break through to come up to Jehovah, lest he break forth upon them.
\v 25 So Moses went down to the people, and told them.