\c 23
\p
\v 1 You shall not take up a false report: put not your hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness.
\v 2 You shall not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shall you speak in a cause to turn aside after a multitude to wrest
justice:
\v 3 neither shall you favor a poor man in his cause.
\p
\v 4 If you meet your enemy’s ox or his ass going astray, you shall surely bring it back to him again.
\v 5 If you see the ass of him that hates you lying under his burden, you shall forbear to leave him, you shall surely
release it with him.
\p
\v 6 You shall not wrest the justice due to your poor in his cause.
\v 7 Keep you far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous kill you not: for I will not justify the wicked.
\v 8 And you shall take no bribe: for a bribe blindeth them that have sight, and perverteth the words of the righteous.
\v 9 And a sojourner shall you not oppress: for you know the heart of a sojourner, seeing you were sojourners in the land of
Egypt.
\p
\v 10 And six years you shall sow your land, and shall gather in the increase thereof:
\v 11 but the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow; that the poor of your people may eat: and what they leave the
beast of the field shall eat. In like manner you shall deal with your vineyard,
and with your oliveyard.
\v 12 Six days you shall do your work, and on the seventh day you shall rest; that your ox and your ass may have rest, and
the son of your handmaid, and the sojourner, may be refreshed.
\v 13 And in all things that I have said to you take you heed: and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it
be heard out of your mouth.
\p
\v 14 Three times you shall keep a feast to me in the year.
\v 15 The feast of unleavened bread shall you keep: seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, at the
time appointed in the month Abib (for in it you came out from Egypt); and none shall appear before me empty:
\v 16 and the feast of harvest, the first fruits of your labors, which you sowest in the field: and the feast of ingathering,
at the end of the year, when you gather in your labors out of the field.
\v 17 Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 18 You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the fat of my feast remain all night
until the morning.
\v 19 The first of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring into the house of Jehovah your God. You shall not boil a kid
in its mother’s milk.
\p
\v 20 Behold, I send an angel before you, to keep you by the way, and to bring you into the place which I have prepared.
\v 21 Take you heed before him, and listen to his voice; provoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgression: for my
name is in him.
\v 22 But if you shall indeed listen to his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and
an adversary to your adversaries.
\v 23 For mine angel shall go before you, and bring you in to the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the
Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: and I will cut them off.
\v 24 You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works; but you shall utterly overthrow them,
and break in pieces their pillars.
\v 25 And you shall serve Jehovah your God, and he will bless your bread, and your water; and I will take sickness away from the
midst of thee.
\v 26 There shall none cast her young, nor be barren, in your land: the number of your days I will fulfil.
\v 27 I will send my terror before thee, and will discomfit all the people to whom you shall come, and I will make all your
enemies turn their backs to thee.
\v 28 And I will send the hornet before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before
thee.
\v 29 I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate, and the beasts of the field
multiply against thee.
\v 30 By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until you be increased, and inherit the land.
\v 31 And I will set your border from the Red Sea even to the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness to the River:
for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand: and you shall drive them out before thee.
\v 32 You shall make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.
\v 33 They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against me; for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a
snare to thee.