\c 25
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, that they take for me an offering: of every man whose heart makes him willing you shall
take my offering.
\v 3 And this is the offering which you shall take of them: gold, and silver, and brass,
\v 4 and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’
hair,
\v 5 and rams’ skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood,
\v 6 oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,
\v 7 onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate.
\v 8 And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.
\v 9 According to all that I show thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the furniture thereof, even so
shall you make it.
\p
\v 10 And they shall make an ark of acacia wood: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the
breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
\v 11 And you shall overlay it with pure gold, within and wiyout shall you overlay it, and shall make upon it a crown of
gold round about.
\v 12 And you shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four feet thereof; and two rings shall be on the one
side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
\v 13 And you shall make staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
\v 14 And you shall put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, wherewith to bear the ark.
\v 15 The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it.
\v 16 And you shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
\v 17 And you shall make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half
shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof.
\v 18 And you shall make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work shall you make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat.
\v 19 And make one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end: of one piece with the mercy-seat shall you make the
cherubim on the two ends thereof.
\v 20 And the cherubim shall spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces one to
another; toward the mercy-seat shall the faces of the cherubim be.
\v 21 And you shall put the mercy-seat above upon the ark; and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give thee.
\v 22 And there I will meet with you, and I will commune with you from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim
which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give you in commandment to the children of Israel.
\p
\v 23 And you shall make a table of acacia wood: two cubits shall be
the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
\v 24 And you shall overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about.
\v 25 And you shall make to it a border of a handbreadth round about; and you shall make a golden crown to the border
thereof round about.
\v 26 And you shall make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.
\v 27 Close by the border shall the rings be, for places for the staves to bear the table.
\v 28 And you shall make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.
\v 29 And you shall make the dishes thereof, and the spoons thereof, and the flagons thereof, and the bowls thereof, wherewith
to pour out: of pure gold shall you make them.
\v 30 And you shall set upon the table showbread before me alway.
\p
\v 31 And you shall make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made, even its base, and its
shaft; its cups, its knops, and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it.
\v 32 And there shall be six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side
thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof:
\v 33 three cups made like almond-blossoms in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three cups made like almond-blossoms in the
other branch, a knop and a flower: so for the six branches going out of the candlestick:
\v 34 and in the candlestick four cups made like almond-blossoms, the knops thereof, and the flowers thereof;
\v 35 and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under
two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the candlestick.
\v 36 Their knops and their branches shall be of one piece with it; the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold.
\v 37 And you shall make the lamps thereof, seven: and they shall light the lamps thereof, to give light over against it.
\v 38 And the snuffers thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of pure gold.
\v 39 Of a talent of pure gold shall it be made, with all these vessels.
\v 40 And see that you make them after their pattern, which has been showed you in the mount.