\c 26
\p
\v 1 Moreover you shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains; of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, with
cherubim the work of the skillful workman shall you make them.
\v 2 The length of each curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: all the curtains
shall have one measure.
\v 3 Five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and
the other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.
\v 4 And you shall make loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shall
you make in the edge of the curtain that is outmost in the second coupling.
\v 5 Fifty loops shall you make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shall you make in the edge of the curtain that is in the
second coupling; the loops shall be opposite one to another.
\v 6 And you shall make fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains one to another with the clasps: and the tabernacle shall
be one whole.
\p
\v 7 And you shall make curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the tabernacle: eleven curtains shall you make
them.
\v 8 The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: the eleven curtains shall
have one measure.
\v 9 And you shall couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shall double over the sixth curtain
in the forefront of the tent.
\v 10 And you shall make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops upon the
edge of the curtain which is outmost in the second coupling.
\v 11 And you shall make fifty clasps of brass, and put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may
be one.
\v 12 And the overhanging part that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the
back of the tabernacle.
\v 13 And the cubit on the one side, and the cubit on the other side, of that which remains in the length of the curtains of
the tent, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it.
\v 14 And you shall make a covering for the tent of rams’ skins dyed red, and a covering of sealskins above.
\p
\v 15 And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing up.
\v 16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each board.
\v 17 Two tenons shall there be in each board, joined one to another: thus shall you make for all the boards of the
tabernacle.
\v 18 And you shall make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards for the south side southward.
\v 19 And you shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and
two sockets under another board for its two tenons.
\v 20 And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, twenty boards,
\v 21 and their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
\v 22 And for the hinder part of the tabernacle westward you shall make six boards.
\v 23 And two boards shall you make for the corners of the tabernacle in the hinder part.
\v 24 And they shall be double beneath, and in like manner they shall be entire to the top thereof to one ring: thus shall
it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners.
\v 25 And there shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two
sockets under another board.
\p
\v 26 And you shall make bars of acacia wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
\v 27 and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the
tabernacle, for the hinder part westward.
\v 28 And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall pass through from end to end.
\v 29 And you shall overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold for places for the bars: and you shall overlay
the bars with gold.
\v 30 And you shall rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion thereof which has been showed you in the mount.
\p
\v 31 And you shall make a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: with cherubim the work of the skillful
workman shall it be made.
\v 32 And you shall hang it upon four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold; their hooks
shall be of gold, upon four sockets of silver.
\v 33 And you shall hang up the veil under the clasps, and shall bring in there within the veil the ark of the testimony:
and the veil shall separate to you between the holy place and the most holy.
\v 34 And you shall put the mercy-seat upon the ark of the testimony in the most holy place.
\v 35 And you shall set the table wiyout the veil, and the candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle
toward the south: and you shall put the table on the north side.
\p
\v 36 And you shall make a screen for the door of the Tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work
of the embroiderer.
\v 37 And you shall make for the screen five pillars of acacia, and overlay them with gold: their hooks shall be of gold: and
you shall cast five sockets of brass for them.