\c 27
\p
\v 1 And you shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and
the height thereof shall be three cubits.
\v 2 And you shall make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof; the horns thereof shall be of one piece with it: and
you shall overlay it with brass.
\v 3 And you shall make its pots to take away its ashes, and its shovels, and its basins, and its flesh-hooks, and its
firepans: all the vessels thereof you shall make of brass.
\v 4 And you shall make for it a grating of network of brass: and upon the net shall you make four brazen rings in the four
corners thereof.
\v 5 And you shall put it under the ledge round the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar.
\v 6 And you shall make staves for the altar, staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass.
\v 7 And the staves thereof shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, in bearing
it.
\v 8 Hollow with planks shall you make it: as it has been showed you in the mount, so shall they make it.
\p
\v 9 And you shall make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of
fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side:
\v 10 and the pillars thereof shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets
shall be of silver.
\v 11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings a hundred cubits long, and the pillars thereof twenty,
and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver.
\v 12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets
ten.
\v 13 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
\v 14 The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets
three.
\v 15 And for the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
\v 16 And for the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined
linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four.
\v 17 All the pillars of the court round about shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of
brass.
\v 18 The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine
twined linen, and their sockets of brass.
\v 19 All the instruments of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the
court, shall be of brass.
\p
\v 20 And you shall command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a
lamp to burn continually.
\v 21 In the tent of meeting, without the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from
evening to morning before Jehovah: it shall be a statute for ever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of
Israel.