\c 28
\p
\v 1 And bring you near to you Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may
minister to me in the priest’s office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons.
\v 2 And you shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty.
\v 3 And you shall speak to all that are wise-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they make Aaron’s
garments to sanctify him, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office.
\v 4 And these are the garments which they shall make: a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a coat of checker work, a
mitre, and a girdle: and they shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, and his sons, that he may minister to me in the
priest’s office.
\v 5 And they shall take the gold, and the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen.
\p
\v 6 And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and purple, scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the skillful
workman.
\v 7 It shall have two shoulder-pieces joined to the two ends thereof, that it may be joined together.
\v 8 And the skilfully woven band, which is upon it, wherewith to gird it on, shall be like the work thereof
and of the same piece; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
\v 9 And you shall take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names of the children of Israel:
\v 10 six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the six that remain on the other stone, according to their birth.
\v 11 With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, shall you engrave the two stones, according to
the names of the children of Israel: you shall make them to be inclosed in settings of gold.
\v 12 And you shall put the two stones upon the shoulder-pieces of the ephod, to be stones of memorial for the children of
Israel: and Aaron shall bear their names before Jehovah upon his two shoulders for a memorial.
\v 13 And you shall make settings of gold,
\v 14 and two chains of pure gold; like cords shall you make them, of wreathen work: and you shall put the wreathen chains on
the settings.
\p
\v 15 And you shall make a breastplate of judgment, the work of the skillful workman; like the work of the ephod you shall
make it; of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, shall you make it.
\v 16 Foursquare it shall be and double; a span shall be the length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof.
\v 17 And you shall set in it settings of stones, four rows of stones: a row of sardius, topaz, and carbuncle shall be the
first row;
\v 18 and the second row an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond;
\v 19 and the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
\v 20 and the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: they shall be inclosed in gold in their settings.
\v 21 And the stones shall be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names; like the
engravings of a signet, every one according to his name, they shall be for the twelve tribes.
\v 22 And you shall make upon the breastplate chains like cords, of wreathen work of pure gold.
\v 23 And you shall make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and shall put the two rings on the two ends of the
breastplate.
\v 24 And you shall put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate.
\v 25 And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains you shall put on the two settings, and put them on the
shoulder-pieces of the ephod in the forepart thereof.
\v 26 And you shall make two rings of gold, and you shall put them upon the two ends of the breastplate, upon the edge
thereof, which is toward the side of the ephod inward.
\v 27 And you shall make two rings of gold, and shall put them on the two shoulder-pieces of the ephod underneath, in the
forepart thereof, close by the coupling thereof, above the skilfully woven band of the ephod.
\v 28 And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be
upon the skilfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed from the ephod.
\v 29 And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breastplate of judgment upon his heart, when he goes in
to the holy place, for a memorial before Jehovah continually.
\v 30 And you shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be upon Aaron’s heart, when he
goes in before Jehovah: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel upon his heart before Jehovah continually.
\p
\v 31 And you shall make the robe of the ephod all of blue.
\v 32 And it shall have a hole for the head in the midst thereof: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of
it, as it were the hole of a coat of mail, that it be not rent.
\v 33 And upon the skirts of it you shall make pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the skirts
thereof; and bells of gold between them round about:
\v 34 a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the skirts of the robe round about.
\v 35 And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and the sound thereof shall be heard when he goes in to the holy place before
Jehovah, and when he comes out, that he die not.
\p
\v 36 And you shall make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it, like the engravings of a signet, HOLY TO JEHOVAH.
\v 37 And you shall put it on a lace of blue, and it shall be upon the mitre; upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be.
\v 38 And it shall be upon Aaron’s forehead, and Aaron shall bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel
shall hallow in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his forehead, that they may be accepted before Jehovah.
\v 39 And you shall weave the coat in checker work of fine linen, and you shall make a mitre of fine linen, and you shall
make a girdle, the work of the embroiderer.
\p
\v 40 And for Aaron’s sons you shall make coats, and you shall make for them girdles, and head-tires shall you make for
them, for glory and for beauty.
\v 41 And you shall put them upon Aaron your brother, and upon his sons with him, and shall anoint them, and consecrate them,
and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office.
\v 42 And you shall make them linen breeches to cover the flesh of their nakedness; from the loins even to the thighs they
shall reach:
\v 43 And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they go in to the tent of meeting, or when they come near to
the altar to minister in the holy place; that they bear not iniquity, and die: it shall be a statute for ever to him and to
his seed after him.