\c 29
\p
\v 1 And this is the thing that you shall do to them to hallow them, to minister to me in the priest’s office: take one
young bullock and two rams without blemish,
\v 2 and unleavened bread, and cakes unleavened mingled with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil: of fine wheaten
flour shall you make them.
\v 3 And you shall put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bullock and the two rams.
\v 4 And Aaron and his sons you shall bring to the door of the tent of meeting, and shall wash them with water.
\v 5 And you shall take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the
breastplate, and gird him with the skilfully woven band of the ephod;
\v 6 and you shall set the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.
\v 7 Then shall you take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.
\v 8 And you shall bring his sons, and put coats upon them.
\v 9 And you shall gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and bind head-tires on them: and they shall have the priesthood
by a perpetual statute: and you shall consecrate Aaron and his sons.
\p
\v 10 And you shall bring the bullock before the tent of meeting: and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head
of the bullock.
\v 11 And you shall kill the bullock before Jehovah, at the door of the tent of meeting.
\v 12 And you shall take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with your finger; and you shall
pour out all the blood at the base of the altar.
\v 13 And you shall take all the fat that covers the inwards, and the caul upon the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat
that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.
\v 14 But the flesh of the bullock, and its skin, and it dung, shall you burn with fire wiyout the camp: it is a
sin-offering.
\p
\v 15 You shall also take the one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram.
\v 16 And you shall kill the ram, and you shall take its blood, and sprinkle it round about upon the altar.
\v 17 And you shall cut the ram into its pieces, and wash its inwards, and its legs, and put them with its pieces, and with
its head.
\v 18 And you shall burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt offering to Jehovah; it is a sweet savor, an offering
made by fire to Jehovah.
\p
\v 19 And you shall take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram.
\v 20 Then shall you kill the ram, and take of its blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip
of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle
the blood upon the altar round about.
\v 21 And you shall take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon
his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and
his sons, and his sons’ garments with him.
\v 22 Also you shall take of the ram the fat, and the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inwards, and the caul of the
liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right thigh (for it is a ram of consecration),
\v 23 and one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before
Jehovah.
\v 24 And you shall put the whole upon the hands of Aaron, and upon the hands of his sons, and shall wave them for a
wave-offering before Jehovah.
\v 25 And you shall take them from their hands, and burn them on the altar upon the burnt-offering, for a sweet savor before
Jehovah: it is an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\p
\v 26 And you shall take the breast of Aaron’s ram of consecration, and wave it for a wave-offering before Jehovah: and it
shall be your portion.
\v 27 And you shall sanctify the breast of the wave-offering, and the thigh of the heave-offering, which is waved, and which
is heaved up, of the ram of consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons:
\v 28 and it shall be for Aaron and his sons as their portion for ever from the children of Israel; for it is a
heave-offering: and it shall be a heave-offering from the children of Israel of the sacrifices of their peace-offerings, even
their heave-offering to Jehovah.
\p
\v 29 And the holy garments of Aaron shall be for his sons after him, to be anointed in them, and to be consecrated in them.
\v 30 Seven days shall the son that is priest in his stead put them on, when he comes into the tent of meeting to minister in
the holy place.
\p
\v 31 And you shall take the ram of consecration, and boil its flesh in a holy place.
\v 32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the door of the tent of
meeting.
\v 33 And they shall eat those things wherewith atonement was made, to consecrate
and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat thereof, because they are holy.
\v 34 And if anything of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread, remain to the morning, then you shall burn the
remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
\p
\v 35 And thus shall you do to Aaron, and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded thee: seven days shall you
consecrate them.
\v 36 And every day shall you offer the bullock of sin-offering for atonement: and you shall cleanse the altar, when you
make atonement for it; and you shall anoint it, to sanctify it.
\v 37 Seven days you shall make atonement for the altar, and sanctify it: and the altar shall be most holy; whatever
touches the altar shall be holy.
\p
\v 38 Now this is that which you shall offer upon the altar: two lambs a year old day by day continually.
\v 39 The one lamb you shall offer in the morning; and the other lamb you shall offer at even:
\v 40 and with the one lamb a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten
oil, and the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink-offering.
\v 41 And the other lamb you shall offer at even, and shall do thereto according to the meal-offering of the morning, and
according to the drink-offering thereof, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\v 42 It shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tent of meeting before Jehovah,
where I will meet with you, to speak there to thee.
\v 43 And there I will meet with the children of Israel; and the Tent
shall be sanctified by my glory.
\v 44 And I will sanctify the tent of meeting, and the altar: Aaron also and his sons will I sanctify, to minister to me in the
priest’s office.
\v 45 And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God.
\v 46 And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell
among them: I am Jehovah their God.