\c 30
\p
\v 1 And you shall make an altar to burn incense upon: of acacia wood shall you make it.
\v 2 A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof; foursquare shall it be; and two cubits shall be the
height thereof: the horns thereof shall be of one piece with it.
\v 3 And you shall overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and
you shall make to it a crown of gold round about.
\v 4 And two golden rings shall you make for it under the crown thereof; upon the two ribs thereof, upon the two sides of it
shall you make them; and they shall be for places for staves wherewith to bear it.
\v 5 And you shall make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold.
\v 6 And you shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy-seat that is over the
testimony, where I will meet with thee.
\v 7 And Aaron shall burn thereon incense of sweet spices: every morning, when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn it.
\v 8 And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before Jehovah throughout your
generations.
\v 9 You shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt-offering, nor meal-offering; and you shall pour no drink-offering
thereon.
\v 10 And Aaron shall make atonement upon the horns of it once in the year; with the blood of the sin-offering of atonement
once in the year shall he make atonement for it throughout your generations: it is most holy to Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 12 When you take the sum of the children of Israel, according to those that are numbered of them, then shall they give
every man a ransom for his soul to Jehovah, when you numberest them; that there be no plague among them, when you numberest
them.
\v 13 This they shall give, every one that passes over to them that are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the
sanctuary; (the shekel is twenty gerahs;) half a shekel for an offering to Jehovah.
\v 14 Every one that passes over to them that are numbered, from twenty years old and upward, shall give the offering of
Jehovah.
\v 15 The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less, than the half shekel, when they give the offering of
Jehovah, to make atonement for your souls.
\v 16 And you shall take the atonement money from the children of Israel, and shall appoint it for the service of the tent of
meeting; that it may be a memorial for the children of Israel before Jehovah, to make atonement for your souls.
\p
\v 17 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 18 You shall also make a laver of brass, and the base thereof of brass, whereat to wash. And you shall put it between the
tent of meeting and the altar, and you shall put water therein.
\v 19 And Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat:
\v 20 when they go into the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near to the altar
to minister, to burn an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\v 21 So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him
and to his seed throughout their generations.
\p
\v 22 Moreover Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 23 Take you also to you the chief spices: of flowing myrrh five hundred
shekels, and of sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty,
\v 24 and of cassia five hundred, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive oil a hin.
\v 25 And you shall make it a holy anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the are of the perfumer: it shall be a holy
anointing oil.
\v 26 And you shall anoint therewith the tent of meeting, and the ark of the testimony,
\v 27 and the table and all the vessels thereof, and the candlestick and the vessels thereof, and the altar of incense,
\v 28 and the altar of burnt offering with all the vessels thereof, and the laver and the base thereof.
\v 29 And you shall sanctify them, that they may be most holy: whatever touches them shall be holy.
\v 30 And you shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office.
\v 31 And you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, This shall be a holy anointing oil to me throughout your
generations.
\v 32 Upon the flesh of man shall it not be poured, neither shall you make any like it, according to the composition thereof: it
is holy, and it shall be holy to you.
\v 33 Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whoever puts any of it upon a stranger, he shall be cut off from his people.
\p
\v 34 And Jehovah said to Moses, Take to you sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; sweet spices with pure
frankincense: of each shall there be a like weight;
\v 35 and you shall make of it incense, a perfume after the are of the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure
and holy:
\v 36 and you shall beat some of it very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting, where I will meet
with thee: it shall be to you most holy.
\v 37 And the incense which you shall make, according to the composition thereof you shall not make for yourselves: it shall be
to you holy for Jehovah.
\v 38 Whosoever shall make like to that, to smell thereof, he shall be cut off from his people.