\c 32
\p
\v 1 And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mount, the people gathered themselves together to
Aaron, and said to him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of
the land of Egypt, we know not what is become of him.
\v 2 And Aaron said to them, Break off the golden rings, which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your
daughters, and bring them to me.
\v 3 And all the people brake off the golden rings which were in their ears, and brought them to Aaron.
\v 4 And he received it at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, and made it a molten calf: and they said, These
are your gods, O Israel, which brought you up out of the land of Egypt.
\v 5 And when Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it; and Aaron made proclamation, and said, To-morrow shall be
a feast to Jehovah.
\v 6 And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt-offerings, and brought peace-offerings; and the people sat down to
eat and to drink, and rose up to play.
\p
\v 7 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, Go, get you down; for your people, that you brought up out of the land of Egypt, have
corrupted themselves:
\v 8 they have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them: they have made them a molten calf, and have
worshipped it, and have sacrificed to it, and said, These are your gods, O Israel, which brought you up out of the land of
Egypt.
\v 9 And Jehovah said to Moses, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiff-necked people:
\v 10 now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them: and I will make of you
a great nation.
\v 11 And Moses implored Jehovah his God, and said, Jehovah, why does your wrath wax hot against your people, that you have
brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand?
\v 12 Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, saying, For evil did he bring them forth, to kill them in the mountains, and to
consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from your fierce wrath, and repent of this evil against your people.
\v 13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own self, and said to them, I will
multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of will I give to your seed, and they shall
inherit it for ever.
\v 14 And Jehovah repented of the evil which he said he would do to his people.
\p
\v 15 And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, with the two tables of the testimony in his hand; tables that were
written on both their sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.
\v 16 And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, graven upon the tables.
\v 17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp.
\v 18 And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery, neither is it the voice of them that cry for being
overcome; but the noise of them that sing do I hear.
\v 19 And it came to pass, as soon as he came near to the camp, that he saw the calf and the dancing: and Moses’ anger waxed
hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.
\v 20 And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it with fire, and ground it to powder, and strewed it upon the water,
and made the children of Israel drink of it.
\p
\v 21 And Moses said to Aaron, What did this people to thee, that you have brought a great sin upon them?
\v 22 And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my lord wax hot: you know the people, that they are
set on evil.
\v 23 For they said to me, Make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of
the land of Egypt, we know not what is become of him.
\v 24 And I said to them, Whosoever has any gold, let them break it off: so they gave it me; and I cast it into the fire,
and there came out this calf.
\p
\v 25 And when Moses saw that the people were broken loose, (for Aaron had let them loose for a derision among their enemies,)
\v 26 then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Whoso is on Jehovah’s side,
let him come to me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together to him.
\v 27 And he said to them, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, Put you every man his sword upon his thigh, and go to and
fro from gate to gate throughout the camp, and kill every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his
neighbor.
\v 28 And the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
\v 29 And Moses said, Consecrate yourselves today to Jehovah, yea, every man against his son, and against his brother; that he
may bestow upon you a blessing this day.
\p
\v 30 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said to the people, You have sinned a great sin: and now I will go up to
Jehovah; perhaps I shall make atonement for your sin.
\v 31 And Moses returned to Jehovah, and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.
\v 32 Yet now, if you will forgive their sin—; and if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of your book which you have written.
\v 33 And Jehovah said to Moses, Whosoever has sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.
\v 34 And now go, lead the people to the place of which I have spoken to thee: behold, mine angel shall go before
thee; nevertheless in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them.
\v 35 And Jehovah struck the people, because they made the calf, which Aaron made.