\c 33
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, Depart, go up hence, you and the people that you have brought up out of the land of Egypt,
to the land of which I sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, To your seed will I give it:
\v 2 and I will send an angel before thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite,
the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
\v 3 to a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of thee, for you are a stiff-necked people,
lest I consume you in the way.
\v 4 And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and no man did put on him his ornaments.
\v 5 And Jehovah said to Moses, Say to the children of Israel, You are a stiff-necked people; if I go up into the midst of
you for one moment, I shall consume you: therefore now put off your ornaments from you, that I may know what to do to you.
\v 6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments from mount Horeb onward.
\p
\v 7 Now Moses used to take the tent and to pitch it without the camp, afar off from the camp; and he called it, The tent of
meeting. And it came to pass, that every one that sought Jehovah went out to the tent of meeting, which was without the camp.
\v 8 And it came to pass, when Moses went out to the Tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, every man at his tent
door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the Tent.
\v 9 And it came to pass, when Moses entered into the Tent, the pillar of cloud descended, and stood at the door of the Tent:
and Jehovah spoke with Moses.
\v 10 And all the people saw the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the Tent: and all the people rose up and worshipped,
every man at his tent door.
\v 11 And Jehovah spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his
minister Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the Tent.
\p
\v 12 And Moses said to Jehovah, See, you say to me, Bring up this people: and you have not let me know whom you will
send with me. Yet you have said, I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight.
\v 13 Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found favor in your sight, show me now your ways, that I may know thee, to the end
that I may find favor in your sight: and consider that this nation is your people.
\v 14 And he said, My presence shall go with you, and I will give you rest.
\v 15 And he said to him, If your presence go not with me, carry us not up hence.
\v 16 For wherein now shall it be known that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? is it not in that you go
with us, so that we are separated, I and your people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth?
\p
\v 17 And Jehovah said to Moses, I will do this thing also that you have spoken; for you have found favor in my sight, and
I know you by name.
\v 18 And he said, Show me, I pray thee, your glory.
\v 19 And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and will proclaim the name of Jehovah before thee; and I will
be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.
\v 20 And he said, You can not see my face; for man shall not see me and live.
\v 21 and Jehovah said, Behold, there is a place by me, and you shall stand upon the rock:
\v 22 and it shall come to pass, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and will cover you
with my hand until I have passed by:
\v 23 and I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back; but my face shall not be seen.