\c 34
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Moses, Hew you two tables of stone like to the first: and I will write upon the tables the words
that were on the first tables, which you brakest.
\v 2 And be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of
the mount.
\v 3 And no man shall come up with thee; neither let any man be seen throughout all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds
feed before that mount.
\v 4 And he hewed two tables of stone like to the first; and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up to mount
Sinai, as Jehovah had commanded him, and took in his hand two tables of stone.
\v 5 And Jehovah descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of Jehovah.
\v 6 And Jehovah passed by before him, and proclaimed, Jehovah, Jehovah, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and
abundant in lovingkindness and truth,
\v 7 keeping lovingkindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin; and that will by no means clear
the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children’s children, upon the third
and upon the fourth generation.
\v 8 And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshipped.
\v 9 And he said, If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, let the Lord, I pray thee, go in the midst of us; for it is a
stiff-necked people; and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance.
\p
\v 10 And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been wrought in all the
eareh, nor in any nation; and all the people among which you are shall see the work of Jehovah; for it is a terrible thing
that I do with thee.
\v 11 Observe you that which I command you this day: behold, I drive out before you the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the
Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
\v 12 Take heed to thyself, lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither you goest, lest it be for a
snare in the midst of thee:
\v 13 but you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and you shall cut down their Asherim;
\v 14 for you shall worship no other god: for Jehovah, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:
\v 15 lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they play the harlot after their gods, and sacrifice to
their gods, and one call you and you eat of his sacrifice;
\v 16 and you take of their daughters to your sons, and their daughters play the harlot after their gods, and make your sons
play the harlot after their gods.
\v 17 You shall make you no molten gods.
\p
\v 18 The feast of unleavened bread shall you keep. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, at the
time appointed in the month Abib; for in the month Abib you came out from Egypt.
\v 19 All that opens the womb is mine; and all your cattle that is male, the firstlings of cow and sheep.
\v 20 And the firstling of an ass you shall redeem with a lamb: and if you will not redeem it, then you shall break its
neck. All the firstborn of your sons you shall redeem. And none shall appear before me empty.
\p
\v 21 Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest: in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest.
\v 22 And you shall observe the feast of weeks, even of the first fruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of
ingathering at the year’s end.
\v 23 Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord Jehovah, the God of Israel.
\v 24 For I will cast out nations before thee, and enlarge your borders: neither shall any man desire your land, when you go
up to appear before Jehovah your God three times in the year.
\p
\v 25 You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the
passover be left to the morning.
\v 26 The first of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring to the house of Jehovah your God. You shall not boil a kid
in its mother’s milk.
\v 27 And Jehovah said to Moses, Write you these words: for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with you
and with Israel.
\v 28 And he was there with Jehovah forty days and forty nights; he did neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon
the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
\p
\v 29 And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with the two tables of the testimony in Moses’ hand, when he
came down from the mount, that Moses knew not that the skin of his face shone by reason of his speaking with him.
\v 30 And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come
near him.
\v 31 And Moses called to them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him: and Moses spoke to them.
\v 32 And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gave them in commandment all that Jehovah had spoken with him
in mount Sinai.
\v 33 And when Moses had done speaking with them, he put a veil on his face.
\v 34 But when Moses went in before Jehovah to speak with him, he took the veil off, until he came out; and he came out, and
spoke to the children of Israel that which he was commanded.
\v 35 And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses’ face shone: and Moses put the veil upon his
face again, until he went in to speak with him.