\c 40
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 On the first day of the first month shall you rear up the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
\v 3 And you shall put therein the ark of the testimony, and you shall screen the ark with the veil.
\v 4 And you shall bring in the table, and set in order the things that are upon it; and you shall bring in the candlestick,
and light the lamps thereof.
\v 5 And you shall set the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the screen of the door to the
tabernacle.
\v 6 And you shall set the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
\v 7 And you shall set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and shall put water therein.
\v 8 And you shall set up the court round about, and hang up the screen of the gate of the court.
\v 9 And you shall take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that is therein, and shall hallow it, and all
the furniture thereof: and it shall be holy.
\v 10 And you shall anoint the altar of burnt-offering, and all its vessels, and sanctify the altar: and the altar shall be
most holy.
\v 11 And you shall anoint the laver and its base, and sanctify it.
\v 12 And you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the door of the tent of meeting, and shall wash them with water.
\v 13 And you shall put upon Aaron the holy garments; and you shall anoint him, and sanctify him, that he may minister to
me in the priest’s office.
\v 14 And you shall bring his sons, and put coats upon them;
\v 15 and you shall anoint them, as you did anoint their father, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office: and
their anointing shall be to them for an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.
\v 16 Thus did Moses: according to all that Jehovah commanded him, so did he.
\p
\v 17 And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared
up.
\v 18 And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and laid its sockets, and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and
reared up its pillars.
\v 19 And he spread the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above upon it; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 20 And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the staves on the ark, and put the mercy-seat above upon the ark:
\v 21 and he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the veil of the screen, and screened the ark of the testimony; as
Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 22 And he put the table in the tent of meeting, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, without the veil.
\v 23 And he set the bread in order upon it before Jehovah; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 24 And he put the candlestick in the tent of meeting, over against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.
\v 25 And he lighted the lamps before Jehovah; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 26 And he put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil:
\v 27 and he burnt thereon incense of sweet spices; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 28 And he put the screen of the door to the tabernacle.
\v 29 And he set the altar of burnt offering at the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and offered upon it the
burnt offering and the meal-offering; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 30 And he set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water therein, wherewith to wash.
\v 31 And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet thereat;
\v 32 when they went into the tent of meeting, and when they came near to the altar, they washed; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 33 And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the screen of the gate of the court. So
Moses finished the work.
\p
\v 34 Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of Jehovah filled the tabernacle.
\v 35 And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of meeting, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of Jehovah
filled the tabernacle.
\v 36 And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward, throughout all their
journeys:
\v 37 but if the cloud was not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up.
\v 38 For the cloud of Jehovah was upon the tabernacle by day, and there was fire therein by night, in the sight of all the
house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.