\c 2
\p
\v 1 Anyway, I definitely decided that I would not come to visit you again  now. If I had come, I would have spoken severely to you again, and I would have made you unhappy as I did the last time  I visited you. 
\v 2  And if I make you unhappy, I will have made unhappy  the only people who can cheer me up, so there will be none of you to cheer me up! 
\v 3 So, instead of going to visit you at that time, I wrote a letter  and sent it to you. I wrote it the way I did so that  you would know what you should do. Then when I come to visit you, you will not make me unhappy when you should be causing me to rejoice. I was quite sure that all of you  would do what I told you to do in that letter, and because of that I would be happy and you would be happy, too. 
\v 4 I wrote to you  the way I did because I felt very troubled and distressed about you. I was even crying very much as I wrote. My purpose in writing was not in order to make you feel bad, but, instead, in order that you might know how deeply I love you.
\p
\v 5  Now I want to write about the man who caused all this anguish. What he did was very wrong, but I know that it has caused you much more sorrow than it has caused me, because  what he did has  affected all of you  to some extent. I say, "to some extent," because I do not want to say that he has done more harm  than he really has done. 
\v 6  Since he has now stopped sinning in that way, the punishment that nearly all of you  decided was right for him has continued long enough. 
\v 7 So now, instead  of punishing him any longer, you need to forgive him and deal kindly with him. If you do not forgive him, he may become so sad that he will begin to  think that you will never forgive him . 
\p
\v 8 For those reasons, I beg you to  forgive him and accept him into your group again, and thus assure him that you truly love him. 
\v 9  I feel sure that you will do as I ask, because when I wrote  severely to you  before, I did it to test you by seeing whether or not you really would do everything  that I, as your apostle, asked you to do. 
\v 10 So  since you obeyed what I told you before, I feel sure that now you will obey what I am writing in this letter and forgive the man, as I have done, because I indeed have forgiven him for the wrong thing that he did. Anything he needed me to forgive him for, I have forgiven, and Christ knows  that I have forgiven him sincerely. I have done that mainly to help you  so that you and I will again have fellowship with each other, and that you will accept him into your group again. 
\v 11  I want you to forgive him so that Satan will not be able to take advantage of  the problems among us  and make the situation worse. We know very well  that he is always planning to  cause problems among us.
\s 2 Corinthians 2:12-17
\sr I did not find Titus in Troas, so I went on to Macedonia province. Everywhere we go, God causes people to know Christ through our teaching. We do not teach in order to get money; we teach with sincere motives.
\p
\v 12  I will continue by telling you what I did after I wrote to you from Ephesus city. I went to Troas  city in order to  tell people the message  about Christ. When I arrived there, I found  many people who had been prepared by the Lord  Jesus  to listen to what I told them about him. 
\v 13 But because my fellow believer Titus had not  arrived with a report from you, I still felt very anxious and concerned  about you. So, after spending only a short time at Troas, I said 'goodbye' to  the believers who were there and came  here to Macedonia  province to find Titus. 
\v 14 However, before I tell you anymore about that, I  want to thank God  for what he is doing. As a great leader of fighting men causes all his prisoners to take part in his victory parade  the smell of perfume. 
\v 15  When we from the guilt of their sin. But those who reject that message will be separated from God  forever. 
\v 16 To those who  are on the way to hell, our message is like  
\v 17  But perhaps God considers us, we teach sincerely  the message that God sent us to proclaim.
