\c 4
\s 2 Corinthians 4:1-6
\sr We are servants of Jesus. It is Jesus who has shown us how great God is.
\p
\v 1 So, because God has acted so kindly toward me enabling me to teach this great message to people, I never get so discouraged that I stop teaching it.
\v 2 And I have determined that we of being deceitful.
\v 3 And if, as some of you say, some people are not able to understand the message that we teach about Christ, it is not because we do not teach it clearly. It is because those people do not want to believe it. They are on the road to eternal death.
\v 4 Satan, who is the one who rules this world, controls the thoughts of those unbelievers. He prevents them from understanding the message about how wonderful Christ is. They are not able to understand that Jesus is like God in every way.
\v 5 That is why, when we teach people, we do not boast about ourselves, as some people say that we do. Instead, we teach you that Jesus Christ is our Lord. We ourselves are only your servants. We want to honor and obey Jesus.
\v 6 When God created the world, he commanded the light to shine where there was nothing but darkness. He is the one who has made his message about Jesus to be like  minds. God has done that for all of us who believe in Jesus. He has done that so that we will understand that when people saw Christ, they saw how awesome God himself was.
\s 2 Corinthians 4:7-15
\sr As Jesus' servants we suffer, but through our suffering many people will receive eternal life and thank and praise God.
\p
\v 7 This work that God has given to us clay pots. God has planned it like that in order that people will know that the power that changes lives is God's power, and not any power of our own.
\v 8 We are continually oppressed  from teaching the message about Jesus Christ. We often do not know what to do in difficult situations, but we never say, "God has abandoned us."
\v 9 We are frequently persecuted .
\v 10 Wherever we.
\v 11 So, although we are still alive, we always realize that we may be killed  because we teach about Jesus. God allows us to suffer in order that people will see that Jesus is alive and that he is strengthening our bodies that are some day going to die.
\v 12 So I conclude that although we apostles are constantly suffering and may soon die, the result of that is that all of you have now received eternal life.
\p
\v 13 We are not discouraged. We are like the person who wrote in the Scriptures, "God, I trusted in you and so I continue speaking your message." We also trust in God, so we continue speaking his message.
\v 14 We do this because we, together with you, to be with him.
\v 15 So I say that all these things that we forgive their sins, will thank him and praise him. Then they will greatly honor him and worship him.
\s 2 Corinthians 4:16-18
\sr As our bodies get weaker, God continually makes our inner lives stronger. He will reward us for all that we have suffered.
\p
\v 16 So, because we know that as a result of our suffering many people will honor God, we.
\v 17 I know that all these troubles that happen to us in this life are not significant and will not last forever. When we think of the glorious things that God is preparing for us to enjoy forever in heaven, all our suffering now is not important.
\v 18 That is why we say, "We will not continue thinking about all the suffering that we are experiencing now. Even though we cannot see all the things that God has prepared for us in heaven, those are what we should be thinking about." That is how we should think, because all these troubles that we have now will last only a short time. But what we will have in heaven, what we cannot see now, will last forever.
