\c 2
\p
\v 1 To the angel of the church in Ephesus write:
\p These things says he that holds the seven stars in his right hand, he that walks in the midst of the seven golden
candlesticks:
\v 2 I know your works, and your toil and patience, and that you can not bear evil men, and did try them that call
themselves apostles, and they are not, and did find them false;
\v 3 and you have patience and did bear for my name’s sake, and have not grown weary.
\v 4 But I have this against thee, that you did leave your first love.
\v 5 Remember therefore whence you are fallen, and repent and do the first works; or else I come to thee, and will move your
candlestick out of its place, except you repent.
\v 6 But this you hast, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
\v 7 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him that overcometh, to him will I give to eat
of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of God.
\p
\v 8 And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write:
\p These things says the first and the last, who was dead, and lived
again:
\v 9 I know your tribulation, and your poverty (but you are rich), and the blasphemy of them that say they are Jews, and they
are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
\v 10 Fear not the things which you are about to suffer: behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison, that you
may be tried; and you shall have tribulation ten days. Be you faithful to death, and I will give you the crown of life.
\v 11 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the
second death.
\p
\v 12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write:
\p These things says he that has the sharp two-edged sword:
\v 13 I know where you dwellest, even where Satan’s throne is; and you holdest fast my name, and did not deny my
faith, even in the days of Antipas my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwelleth.
\v 14 But I have a few things against thee, because you have there some that hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to
cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit fornication.
\v 15 So have you also some that hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans in like manner.
\v 16 Repent therefore; or else I come to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword of my mouth.
\v 17 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him that overcometh, to him will I give of
the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, and upon the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he that
receiveth it.
\p
\v 18 And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write:
\p These things says the Son of God, who has his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like to burnished brass:
\v 19 I know your works, and your love and faith and ministry and patience, and that your last works are more than the first.
\v 20 But I have this against thee, that you suffer the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess; and she
teaches and seduceth my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed to idols.
\v 21 And I gave her time that she should repent; and she willeth not to repent of her fornication.
\v 22 Behold, I cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of her
works.
\v 23 And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches shall know that I am he that searcheth the reins and
hearts: and I will give to each one of you according to your works.
\v 24 But to you I say, to the rest that are in Thyatira, as many as have not this teaching, who know not the deep things of
Satan, as they are wont to say; I cast upon you none other burden.
\v 25 Nevertheless that which you have, hold fast till I come.
\v 26 And he that overcometh, and he that keeps my works to the end, to him will I give authority over the nations:
\v 27 and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of the potter are broken to shivers; as I also have received of
my Father:
\v 28 and I will give him the morning star.
\v 29 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.