\c 3
\p
\v 1 And to the angel of the church in Sardis write:
\p These things says he that has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have a name that
you livest, and you are dead.
\v 2 Be you watchful, and establish the things that remain, which were ready to die: for I have found no works of your
perfected before my God.
\v 3 Remember therefore how you have received and did hear; and keep
it, and repent. If therefore you shall not watch, I will come as a thief, and you shall not know what hour I will
come upon thee.
\v 4 But you have a few names in Sardis that did not defile their garments: and they shall walk with me in white; for they are
worthy.
\v 5 He that overcometh shall thus be arrayed in white garments; and I will in no wise blot his name out of the book of life,
and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
\v 6 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
\p
\v 7 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write:
\p These things says he that is holy, he that is true, he that has the key of David, he that opens and none shall shut, and
that shutteth and none openeth:
\v 8 I know your works (behold, I have set before you a door opened, which none can shut), that you have a little power, and
did keep my word, and did not deny my name.
\v 9 Behold, I give of the synagogue of Satan, of them that say they are Jews, and they are not, but do lie; behold, I will
make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved thee.
\v 10 Because you did keep the word of my patience, I also will keep you from the hour of trial, that
hour which is to come upon the whole world, to try them that dwell upon the earth.
\v 11 I come quickly: hold fast that which you hast, that no one take your crown.
\v 12 He that overcometh, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go out thence no more: and I will
write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from
my God, and mine own new name.
\v 13 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
\p
\v 14 And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write:
\p These things says the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God:
\v 15 I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot: I would you were cold or hot.
\v 16 So because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spew you out of my mouth.
\v 17 Because you sayest, I am rich, and have gotten riches, and have need of nothing; and know not that you are the
wretched one and miserable and poor and blind and naked:
\v 18 I counsel you to buy of me gold refined by fire, that you may become rich; and white garments, that you may
clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness be not made manifest; and eyesalve to anoint your eyes, that
you may see.
\v 19 As many as I love, I reprove and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent.
\v 20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup
with him, and he with me.
\v 21 He that overcometh, I will give to him to sit down with me in my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father
in his throne.
\v 22 He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
\b