\c 13
\nb
\v 1 and he stood upon the sand of the sea.
\p And I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns ten diadems, and upon his
heads names of blasphemy.
\v 2 And the beast which I saw was like to a leopard, and his feet were as
the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his throne, and
great authority.
\v 3 And I saw one of his heads as though it had been struck to death; and his death-stroke was healed: and the
whole earth wondered after the beast;
\v 4 and they worshipped the dragon, because he gave his authority to the beast; and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who
is like to the beast? and who is able to war with him?
\v 5 and there was given to him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and there was given to him authority to continue
forty and two months.
\v 6 And he opened his mouth for blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle,
even them that dwell in the heaven.
\v 7 And it was given to him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and there was given to him authority over
every tribe and people and tongue and nation.
\v 8 And all that dwell on the earth shall worship him, every one
whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb that has been slain.
\v 9 If any man has an ear, let him hear.
\v 10 If any man is for captivity, into captivity he goeth: if any man shall kill with the sword, with the sword must
he be killed. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.
\p
\v 11 And I saw another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like to a lamb, and he spoke as a dragon.
\v 12 And he exerciseth all the authority of the first beast in his sight. And he makes the earth and them that dwell therein
to worship the first beast, whose death-stroke was healed.
\v 13 And he does great signs, that he should even make fire to come down out of heaven upon the earth in the sight of men.
\v 14 And he deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by reason of the signs which it was given him to do in the sight of the
beast; saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast who has the stroke of the sword and
lived.
\v 15 And it was given to him to give breath to it, even
to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as should not worship
the image of the beast should be killed.
\v 16 And he causes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the free and the bond, that there be given
them a mark on their right hand, or upon their forehead;
\v 17 and that no man should be able to buy or to sell, save he that has the mark,
even the name of the beast or the number of his name.
\v 18 Here is wisdom. He that has understanding, let him count the number of the beast; for it is the number of a man: and his
number is Six hundred and sixty and six.