\c 15
\p
\v 1 I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman.
\v 2 Every branch in me that bears not fruit, he takes it away: and every
branch that bears fruit, he cleanseth it, that it may bear more fruit.
\v 3 Already you are clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.
\v 4 Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; so neither can ye,
except you abide in me.
\v 5 I am the vine, you are the branches: He that remains in me, and I in him, the same bears much fruit: for apart from me you
can do nothing.
\v 6 If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and they gather them, and cast them into the
fire, and they are burned.
\v 7 If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you will, and it shall be done to you.
\v 8 Herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit; and
so shall you be my disciples.
\v 9 Even as the Father has loved me, I also have loved you: abide you in my love.
\v 10 If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and abide in his
love.
\v 11 These things have I spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and
that your joy may be made full.
\v 12 This is my commandment, that you love one another, even as I have loved you.
\v 13 Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
\v 14 You are my friends, if you do the things which I command you.
\v 15 No longer do I call you servants; for the servant knows not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all
things that I heard from my Father I have made known to you.
\v 16 You did not choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and
that your fruit should abide: that whatever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.
\v 17 These things I command you, that you may love one another.
\v 18 If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before
it hated you.
\v 19 If you were of the world, the world would love its own: but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the
world, therefore the world hates you.
\v 20 Remember the word that I said to you, A servant is not greater than his lord. If they persecuted me, they will also
persecute you; if they kept my word, they will keep yours also.
\v 21 But all these things will they do to you for my name’s sake, because they know not him that sent me.
\v 22 If I had not come and spoken to them, they had not had sin: but now they have no excuse for their sin.
\v 23 He that hates me hates my Father also.
\v 24 If I had not done among them the works which none other did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated
both me and my Father.
\v 25 But this comes to pass, that the word may be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a
cause.
\v 26 But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send to you from the Father,
even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall bear witness of me:
\v 27 and you also bear witness, because you have been with me from the beginning.