\c 16
\p
\v 1 These things have I spoken to you, that you should not be caused to stumble.
\v 2 They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whoever kills you shall think that he offers
service to God.
\v 3 And these things will they do, because they have not known the Father, nor me.
\v 4 But these things have I spoken to you, that when their hour is come, you may remember them, how that I told you. And
these things I said not to you from the beginning, because I was with you.
\v 5 But now I go to him that sent me; and none of you asks me, Whither go thou?
\v 6 But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
\v 7 Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter will not
come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you.
\v 8 And he, when he is come, will convict the world in respect of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment:
\v 9 of sin, because they believe not on me;
\v 10 of righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you behold me no more;
\v 11 of judgment, because the prince of this world has been judged.
\v 12 I have yout many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
\v 13 Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he shall guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak from
himself; but what things soever he shall hear, these shall he speak: and he shall declare to you the things that
are to come.
\v 14 He shall glorify me: for he shall take of mine, and shall declare
it to you.
\v 15 All things whatever the Father has are mine: therefore said I, that he takes of mine, and shall declare
it to you.
\v 16 A little while, and you behold me no more; and again a little while, and you shall see me.
\v 17 Some of his disciples therefore said one to another, What is this that he says to us, A little while, and
you behold me not; and again a little while, and you shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father?
\v 18 They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? We know not what he saith.
\v 19 Jesus perceived that they were desirous to ask him, and he said to them, Do you inquire among yourselves concerning
this, that I said, A little while, and you behold me not, and again a little while, and you shall see me?
\v 20 Verily, verily, I say to you, that you shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: you shall be sorrowful, but
your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
\v 21 A woman when she is in travail has sorrow, because her hour is come: but when she is delivered of the child, she
remembers no more the anguish, for the joy that a man is born into the world.
\v 22 And you therefore now have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one takes away
from you.
\v 23 And in that day you shall ask me no question. Verily, verily, I say to you, If you shall ask anything of the Father, he
will give it you in my name.
\v 24 Hitherto have you asked nothing in my name: ask, and you shall receive, that your joy may be made full.
\p
\v 25 These things have I spoken to you in dark sayings: the hour cometh, when I shall no more speak to you in dark
sayings, but shall tell you plainly of the Father.
\v 26 In that day you shall ask in my name: and I say not to you, that I will pray the Father for you;
\v 27 for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from the Father.
\v 28 I came out from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father.
\v 29 His disciples say, Lo, now speak you plainly, and speak no dark saying.
\v 30 Now know we that you know all things, and need not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that you
came forth from God.
\v 31 Jesus answered them, Do you now believe?
\v 32 Behold, the hour cometh, youa, is come, that you shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and
yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.
\v 33 These things have I spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation: but be of good
cheer; I have overcome the world.