\c 17
\p
\v 1 These things spoke Jesus; and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, Father, the hour is come; glorify your Son, that the
Son may glorify thee:
\v 2 even as you gave him authority over all flesh, that to all whom you have given him, he should give eternal life.
\v 3 And this is life eternal, that they should know you the only true God, and him whom you did send,
even Jesus Christ.
\v 4 I glorified you on the earth, having accomplished the work which you have given me to do.
\v 5 And now, Father, glorify you me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world was.
\v 6 I manifested your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world: your they were, and you gave them to me; and
they have kept your word.
\v 7 Now they know that all things whatever you have given me are from thee:
\v 8 for the words which you gave me I have given to them; and they received
them, and knew of a truth that I came forth from thee, and they believed that you did send me.
\v 9 I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for those whom you have given me; for they are thine:
\v 10 and all things that are mine are your, and your are mine: and I am glorified in them.
\v 11 And I am no more in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in your name which
you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are.
\v 12 While I was with them, I kept them in your name which you have given me: and I guarded them, and not one of them
perished, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled.
\v 13 But now I come to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves.
\v 14 I have given them your word; and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
\v 15 I pray not that you should take them from the world, but that you should keep them from the evil
one.
\v 16 They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
\v 17 Sanctify them in the truth: your word is truth.
\v 18 As you did send me into the world, even so sent I them into the world.
\v 19 And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
\v 20 Neither for these only do I pray, but for them also that believe on me through their word;
\v 21 that they may all be one; even as thou, Father, are in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us: that the
world may believe that you did send me.
\v 22 And the glory which you have given me I have given to them; that they may be one, even as we
are one;
\v 23 I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that you did send me, and
loved them, even as you loved me.
\v 24 Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which you
have given me: for you loved me before the foundation of the world.
\v 25 O righteous Father, the world knew you not, but I knew you; and these knew that you did send me;
\v 26 and I made known to them your name, and will make it known; that the love wherewith you loved me may be in them, and
I in them.