\c 18
\p
\v 1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where was a garden, into which
he entered, himself and his disciples.
\v 2 Now Judas also, who betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus oft-times resorted there with his disciples.
\v 3 Judas then, having received the band of soldiers, and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, comes
there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
\v 4 Jesus therefore, knowing all the things that were coming upon him, went forth, and says to them, Whom seek ye?
\v 5 They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus says to them, I am
he. And Judas also, who betrayed him, was standing with them.
\v 6 When therefore he said to them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.
\v 7 Again therefore he asked them, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.
\v 8 Jesus answered, I told you that I am he; if therefore you seek me, let these go their way:
\v 9 that the word might be fulfilled which he spake, Of those whom you have given me I lost not one.
\v 10 Simon Peter therefore having a sword drew it, and struck the high priest’s servant, and cut off his right ear. Now the
servant’s name was Malchus.
\v 11 Jesus therefore said to Peter, Put up the sword into the sheath: the cup which the Father has given me, shall I not
drink it?
\p
\v 12 So the band and the chief captain, and the officers of the Jews, seized Jesus and bound him,
\v 13 and led him to Annas first; for he was father in law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
\v 14 Now Caiaphas was he that gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
\p
\v 15 And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest,
and entered in with Jesus into the court of the high priest;
\v 16 but Peter was standing at the door without. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke
to her that kept the door, and brought in Peter.
\v 17 The maid therefore that kept the door says to Peter, Are you also
one of this man’s disciples? He saith, I am not.
\v 18 Now the servants and the officers were standing there, having made a fire of coals; for it was cold; and they
were warming themselves: and Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself.
\p
\v 19 The high priest therefore asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his teaching.
\v 20 Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world; I ever taught in synagogues, and in the temple, where all the Jews
come together; and in secret spoke I nothing.
\v 21 Why asked you me? ask them that have heard me, what I spoke to them: behold, these know the things which I
said.
\v 22 And when he had said this, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Answerest you the high
priest so?
\v 23 Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why strike you me?
\v 24 Annas therefore sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.
\p
\v 25 Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. They said therefore to him, Are you also
one of his disciples? He denied, and said, I am not.
\v 26 One of the servants of the high priest, being a kinsman of him whose ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see you in the
garden with him?
\v 27 Peter therefore denied again: and straightway the cock crew.
\p
\v 28 They lead Jesus therefore from Caiaphas into the Praetorium: and it was early; and they themselves entered not into the
Praetorium, that they might not be defiled, but might eat the passover.
\v 29 Pilate therefore went out to them, and saith, What accusation bring you against this man?
\v 30 They answered and said to him, If this man were not an evil-doer, we should not have delivered him up to thee.
\v 31 Pilate therefore said to them, Take him yourselves, and judge him according to your law. The Jews said to him, It is
not lawful for us to put any man to death:
\v 32 that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying by what manner of death he should die.
\p
\v 33 Pilate therefore entered again into the Praetorium, and called Jesus, and said to him, Are you the King of the Jews?
\v 34 Jesus answered, Sayest you this of thyself, or did others tell it you concerning me?
\v 35 Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests delivered you to me: what have you done?
\v 36 Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I
should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence.
\v 37 Pilate therefore said to him, Are you a king then? Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. To this end have I
been born, and to this end am I come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. Every one that is of the truth
hears my voice.
\v 38 Pilate says to him, What is truth?
\p And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and says to them, I find no crime in him.
\v 39 But you have a custom, that I should release to you one at the passover: will you therefore that I release to you the
King of the Jews?
\v 40 They cried out therefore again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.