\c 20
\p
\v 1 Now on the first day of the week comes Mary Magdalene early, while it was yet dark, to the tomb, and sees
the stone taken away from the tomb.
\v 2 She runs therefore, and comes to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and says to them, They
have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we know not where they have laid him.
\v 3 Peter therefore went forth, and the other disciple, and they went toward the tomb.
\v 4 And they ran both together: and the other disciple outran Peter, and came first to the tomb;
\v 5 and stooping and looking in, he sees the linen cloths lying; yet entered he not in.
\v 6 Simon Peter therefore also cometh, following him, and entered into the tomb; and he sees the linen cloths lying,
\v 7 and the napkin, that was upon his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but rolled up in a place by itself.
\v 8 Then entered in therefore the other disciple also, who came first to the tomb, and he saw, and believed.
\v 9 For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead.
\v 10 So the disciples went away again to their own home.
\p
\v 11 But Mary was standing without at the tomb weeping: so, as she wept, she stooped and looked into the tomb;
\v 12 and she sees two angels in white sitting, one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
\v 13 And they say to her, Woman, why weep thou? She says to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not
where they have laid him.
\v 14 When she had thus said, she turned herself back, and sees Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.
\v 15 Jesus says to her, Woman, why weep thou? whom seek thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, says to him,
Sir, if you have borne him hence, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away.
\v 16 Jesus says to her, Mary. She turns herself, and says to him in Hebrew, Rabboni; which is to say, Teacher.
\v 17 Jesus says to her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to the Father: but go to my brethren, and say to them, I
ascend to my Father and your Father, and my God and your God.
\v 18 Mary Magdalene comes and tells the disciples, I have seen the Lord; and
that he had said these things to her.
\p
\v 19 When therefore it was evening, on that day, the first day
of the week, and when the doors were shut where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the
midst, and says to them, Peace be to you.
\v 20 And when he had said this, he showed to them his hands and his side. The disciples therefore were glad, when they saw
the Lord.
\v 21 Jesus therefore said to them again, Peace be to you: as the Father has sent me, even so send I you.
\v 22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and says to them, Receive you the Holy Spirit:
\v 23 whose soever sins you forgive, they are forgiven to them; whose soever
sins you retain, they are retained.
\p
\v 24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
\v 25 The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Except I shall see in his
hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.
\p
\v 26 And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Jesus cometh, the doors being shut, and stood
in the midst, and said, Peace be to you.
\v 27 Then says he to Thomas, Reach hither your finger, and see my hands; and reach
hither your hand, and put it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing.
\v 28 Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God.
\v 29 Jesus says to him, Because you have seen me, you have believed: blessed
are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.
\p
\v 30 Many other signs therefore did Jesus in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book:
\v 31 but these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing you may have life
in his name.