\c 21
\p
\v 1 After these things Jesus manifested himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and he manifested
himself on this wise.
\v 2 There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the
sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples.
\v 3 Simon Peter says to them, I go a fishing. They say to him, We also come with thee. They went forth, and entered into
the boat; and that night they took nothing.
\v 4 But when day was now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach: yet the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.
\v 5 Jesus therefore says to them, Children, have you anything to eat? They answered him, No.
\v 6 And he said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you shall find. They cast therefore, and now they
were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.
\v 7 That disciple therefore whom Jesus loved says to Peter, It is the Lord. So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord,
he wrapped his coat about him (for he was naked), and cast himself into the sea.
\v 8 But the other disciples came in the little boat (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits off),
dragging the net full of fishes.
\v 9 So when they got out upon the land, they see a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread.
\v 10 Jesus says to them, Bring of the fish which you have now taken.
\v 11 Simon Peter therefore went up, and drew the net to land, full of great fishes, a hundred and fifty and three: and for all
there were so many, the net was not rent.
\v 12 Jesus says to them, Come and break your fast. And none of the disciples dared inquire of him, Who are thou?
knowing that it was the Lord.
\v 13 Jesus cometh, and takes the bread, and gives them, and the fish likewise.
\v 14 This is now the third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples, after that he was risen from the dead.
\p
\v 15 So when they had broken their fast, Jesus says to Simon Peter, Simon,
son of John, love you me more than these? He says to him, Yea, Lord; you know that I love thee. He says
to him, Feed my lambs.
\v 16 He says to him again a second time, Simon, son of John, love you me? He says to him, Yea, Lord; you
know that I love thee. He says to him, Tend my sheep.
\v 17 He says to him the third time, Simon, son of John, love you me? Peter was grieved because he said to
him the third time, Lovest you me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things; you know that I love thee. Jesus
says to him, Feed my sheep.
\v 18 Verily, verily, I say to thee, When you was young, you girdedst thyself, and walked whither you wouldest: but
when you shall be old, you shall stretch forth your hands, and another shall gird you, and carry you whither you would
not.
\v 19 Now this he spake, signifying by what manner of death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he says to
him, Follow me.
\v 20 Peter, turning about, sees the disciple whom Jesus loved following; who also leaned back on his breast at the supper,
and said, Lord, who is he that betrays thee?
\v 21 Peter therefore seeing him says to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do?
\v 22 Jesus says to him, If I will that he wait till I come, what
is that to thee? follow you me.
\v 23 This saying therefore went forth among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not to him, that
he should not die; but, If I will that he wait till I come, what
is that to thee?
\b
\p
\v 24 This is the disciple that bears witness of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his witness is true.
\p
\v 25 And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which if they should be written every one, I suppose that even
the world itself would not contain the books that should be written.