\c 1
\p
\v 1-2 This is. What I want to tell you begins just like the prophet Isaiah said it would begin, when he wrote these words that God said to his Son:
\q Listen! I am sending my messenger ahead of you. He will prepare people for yourcoming.
\v 3 He will call out to people who pass by where he is in the desolate area, "As people straighten out pathways before an important official arrives  in order that you will be prepared when the Lord comes."
\p
\v 4 The messenger that Isaiah predicted was John. People called him 'The Baptizer'. In the desolate area near the Jordan River he kept telling people, "If you want God to forgive you for having sinned, you must turn away from your sinful behavior before you ask me to baptizeyou."
\v 5 A great number  in the Jordan River.
\v 6 John wore rough clothes made of camel's hair. And as the prophet Elijah had done, he wore a leather belt around his waist; and what he ate was only grasshoppers and honey that he found in that desolate area.
\v 7 He was preaching, "Very shortly a man will come who is very great. I am nothing compared to him. Because he is so superior to me, I am not even worthy to serve him like a slave by stooping down and untying his sandals.
\v 8 I used only water when I baptized you because you said that you wanted to change your lives, but he will put his Holy Spirit within you to truly change your lives."
\s Mark 1:9-13
\sr God showed Jesus to be the Son of God by God's Spirit descending upon him; by Himself, God the Father, declaring it; by Satan testing him; and by the angels taking care of him.
\p
\v 9 During that time when John was preaching, Jesus came from Nazareth town, which is in Galilee district. He went to where John was preaching and he was baptized by John  in the Jordan River.
\v 10 Immediately after Jesus came up out of the water, he saw heaven opened up and he saw the Spirit of God descending on himself. He came in the form of a dove.
\v 11 And God  spoke to him from heaven saying, "You are my Son, the one whom I love dearly. I am very pleased with you."
\v 12 Then the Spirit of God sent Jesus into the desolate area.
\v 13 He was there for forty days. During that time, he was tempted by Satan . There were wild animals there also. But angels took care of him.
\s Mark 1:14-15
\sr After John was arrested, Jesus came and preached the good message that came from God.
\p
\v 14 Later, after John was put in prison  because he had rebuked the governor Herod Antipas for his sins, Jesus went to Galilee district. There he was preaching the good message that came from God.
\v 15 He was repeatedly saying, "Now is the time when God will begin to rule people's lives in a new way. So turn away from your sinful behavior! Believe the good message in order to belong to him!"
\s Mark 1:16-20
\sr Jesus showed his authority when he summoned four men, and they immediately went with him.
\p
\v 16 One day, while Jesus was walking along by Galilee lake, he saw two men, Simon and Simon's younger brother, Andrew. They were casting their fishing net into the lake. They earned money by catching and selling fish.
\v 17 Then Jesus said to them, "Just like you have been gathering fish, come with me and I will teach you how to gather people to become my disciples" .
\v 18 Immediately they abandoned the work that they were doing with their nets, and they went with him.
\v 19 After they had gone on a little further, Jesus saw two other men, James and James' younger brother, John. They were the sons of a man named Zebedee. They were both in a boat mending fishing nets.
\v 20 As soon as Jesus saw them, he told them thatthey should leave their work and to come with him. So they left their father, who remained in the boat with the hired servants, and they went away with Jesus.
\s Mark 1:21-28
\sr People were amazed as a result of Jesus expelling a demon from a man.
\p
\v 21 Later Jesus and those disciples arrived at Capernaum town. On the next Sabbath, he began teaching the people who had gathered there.
\v 22 They were continually amazed at the way he taught. He did not just teach what others had taught, like the men who teach the Jewish laws did. They habitually just repeated what other people had taught. Instead, he taught with his own authority.
\v 23 Suddenly, while he was teaching, a man appeared in their worship place who had an evil spirit in him, and he shouted,
\v 24 "Jesus, from Nazareth town, since we evil spirits have nothing in common with you, do not interfere with us! I know who you are. I know that you are the holy one who has come from God!"
\v 25 Jesus rebuked the evil spirit, saying, "Be quiet! And come out of the man!"
\v 26 The evil spirit shook the man hard. He screamed loudly, and then he came out of the man and left.
\v 27 All the people who were there were amazed. As a result, they discussed this among themselves, exclaiming, "This is amazing! Not only does he teach in a new and authoritative way, but also the evil spirits obey him when he commandsthem!"
\v 28 The people very soon told many others throughout the whole Galilee district what Jesus had done.
\s Mark 1:29-31
\sr Jesus healed Simon's mother-in-law.
\p
\v 29 After they left the synagogue, Jesus, Simon and Andrew, along with James and John went directly to the house of Simon and Andrew.
\v 30 Simon's mother-in-law was lying in bed because she had a high fever. Right away someone told Jesus about her being sick.
\v 31 He went to her, and helped her up by taking hold of her hand. She recovered at once from the fever, and then shegot up and served them some food.
\s Mark 1:32-34
\sr Jesus healed many people and expelled many evil spirits from people.
\p
\v 32 That evening, after the sun had gone down and restrictions about travel on the Sabbath were ended, some people brought to Jesus many people who were sick and others whose lives evil spirits were controlling.
\v 33 It seemed as though everyone  who lived in the town was gathered at the doorway of Simon's house.
\v 34 Jesus healed many people who were ill with various diseases. He also expelled many demons from people. He did not allow the demons to tell people about him, because they knew that he had come from God, and for various reasons he did not want everyone to know that yet.
\s Mark 1:35-39
\sr Jesus traveled throughout Galilee, preaching and expelling evil spirits from people.
\p
\v 35 Jesus arose very early the next morning while it was still dark. He left the house and went away from the town to a place where there were no people. Then he prayed there.
\v 36 Simon and his companions searched for him. When they found him, wanting him to go back to town to help other people, they said to him,
\v 37 "Come back to the town with us, because many  people in Capernaum are looking for you!"
\v 38 He said to them, "No, let's go on to the neighboring towns in order that I can preach there also, because the reason that I came into the world was to preach to people in many places!"
\v 39 So they went throughout Galilee district. As they did so, each Sabbath. He was also expelling evil spirits from people.
\s Mark 1:40-45
\sr Jesus cured a leper and arranged for him to be able to associate with people again.
\p
\v 40 One day a man who had a bad skin disease called leprosy came to Jesus. He knelt down in front of Jesus and then he pleaded with him saying, "Please heal me, because I know you are able to heal me if you want to!"
\v 41 Jesus felt very sorry for him. So he ignored the religious laws about coming close to people who had that disease. He reached out his hand and touched the man. Then he said to him, "Since I am willing to heal you, be healed  now!"
\v 42 Immediately the man was healed! He was no longer a leper!
\v 43 Jesus spoke sternly to him before he sent him away.
\v 44 What Jesus said was, "Go to a local priest and show yourself to him in order that he may examine you and verify that you are healed. Then, after the priest tells the local people, they will know that you have been healed, and you will be able to associate with them again. Make sure that you do not tell others about what happened! Then go to Jerusalem and take to the priest what Moses commanded that people who have been healed from leprosy should offer, in order that he may offer it as a sacrifice to God."
\v 45 The man went and presented himself to the priest. But then he began to tell many people about how Jesus had healed him . As a result, Jesus was no longer able to enter any town publicly because the crowds would surround him. Instead, he remained outside the towns in places where no people lived. But people kept coming to him from all over that region.
