\c 1
\p
\v 1 The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see.
\p
\v 2 O Jehovah, how long shall I cry, and you will not hear? I cry out to you of violence, and you will not save.
\v 3 Why do you show me iniquity, and look upon perverseness? for destruction and violence are before me; and there is
strife, and contention rises up.
\v 4 Therefore the law is slacked, and justice does never go forth; for the wicked does compass about the righteous; therefore
justice goes forth perverted.
\p
\v 5 Behold you among the nations, and look, and wonder marvellously; for I am working a work in your days, which you will not
believe though it be told you.
\v 6 For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, that march through the breadth of the earth, to possess
dwelling-places that are not theirs.
\v 7 They are terrible and dreadful; their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves.
\v 8 Their horses also are swifter than leopards, and are more fierce than the evening wolves; and their horsemen press proudly
on: yea, their horsemen come from far; they fly as an eagle that hastens to devour.
\v 9 They come all of them for violence; the set of their faces is forwards; and they gather captives as the sand.
\v 10 Yea, he scoffeth at kings, and princes are a derision to him; he derideth every stronghold; for he heapeth up dust, and
takes it.
\v 11 Then shall he sweep by as a wind, and shall pass over, and be guilty,
even he whose might is his god.
\p
\v 12 Are not you from everlasting, O Jehovah my God, my Holy One? we shall not die. O Jehovah, you have ordained him for
judgment; and thou, O Rock, have established him for correction.
\v 13 You that are of purer eyes than to behold evil, and that can not look on perverseness, wherefore lookest you upon
them that deal treacherously, and holdest your peace when the wicked swalloweth up the man that is more righteous than he;
\v 14 and make men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?
\v 15 He takes up all of them with the angle, he catches them in his net, and gathers them in his drag: therefore he
rejoices and is glad.
\v 16 Therefore he sacrifices to his net, and burns incense to his drag; because by them his portion is fat, and his
food plenteous.
\v 17 Shall he therefore empty his net, and spare not to kill the nations continually?