\c 2
\p
\v 1 I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will look forth to see what he will speak with me, and what I
shall answer concerning my complaint.
\v 2 And Jehovah answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make it plain upon tablets, that he may run that readeth it.
\v 3 For the vision is yet for the appointed time, and it hastens toward the end, and shall not lie: though it tarry, wait for
it; because it will surely come, it will not delay.
\p
\v 4 Behold, his soul is puffed up, it is not upright in him; but the righteous shall live by his faith.
\v 5 Yea, moreover, wine is treacherous, a haughty man, that keeps not at home; who enlarges his desire as Sheol, and he is
as death, and cannot be satisfied, but gathers to him all nations, and heapeth to him all peoples.
\v 6 Shall not all these take up a parable against him, and a taunting proverb against him, and say, Woe to him that increases
that which is not his! how long? and that ladeth himself with pledges!
\v 7 Shall they not rise up suddenly that shall bite thee, and awake that shall vex thee, and you shall be for booty to
them?
\v 8 Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the peoples shall plunder thee, because of men’s blood, and
for the violence done to the land, to the city and to all that dwell therein.
\p
\v 9 Woe to him that gets an evil gain for his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the
hand of evil!
\v 10 You have devised shame to your house, by cutting off many peoples, and have sinned against your soul.
\v 11 For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber shall answer it.
\p
\v 12 Woe to him that builds a town with blood, and establishes a city by iniquity!
\v 13 Behold, is it not of Jehovah of hosts that the peoples labor for the fire, and the nations weary themselves for vanity?
\v 14 For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of Jehovah, as the waters cover the sea.
\p
\v 15 Woe to him that gives his neighbor drink, to you that addest your venom, and make him drunken also, that
you may look on their nakedness!
\v 16 You are filled with shame, and not glory: drink you also, and be as one uncircumcised; the cup of Jehovah’s right hand
shall come round to thee, and foul shame shall be upon your glory.
\v 17 For the violence done to Lebanon shall cover thee, and the destruction of the beasts, which made them afraid; because of
men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, to the city and to all that dwell therein.
\p
\v 18 What profiteth the graven image, that the maker thereof has graven it; the molten image, even the teacher of lies, that
he that shapes its form trusts therein, to make dumb idols?
\v 19 Woe to him that says to the wood, Awake; to the dumb stone, Arise! Shall this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold
and silver, and there is no breath at all in the midst of it.
\v 20 But Jehovah is in his holy temple: let all the earth keep silence before him.