\c 16
\s1 The Day of Atonement
\p
\v 1 After the two sons of Aaron died because they burned incense to Yahweh in a manner that was contrary to what Yahweh commanded, Yahweh spoke to Moses.
\v 2 He said to him sins. I am present in the cloud that is over the cover of the sacred chest. If Aaron goes in that room when it is not the proper time, he will die!
\p
\v 3 When Aaron enters the Sacred Tent area, he must bring a bull that will be killed to become an offering for sins, and a ram to be killed to be an offering that will be completely burned on the altar.
\v 4 Then he must bathe his whole body, and put on the linen underwear around his waist and wrap the turban around his head. Those are his sacred garments.
\v 5 The Israelite people must then bring to him two male goats to be killed as an offering for sin, and a ram to be killed and burned completely on the altar.
\p
\v 6 Aaron must offer the bull to me to be a sacrifice in order that I will forgive his sins and the sins of his family .
\v 7 Then he must bring the two male goats to me at the entrance to the Sacred Tent.
\v 8 He must cast lots to determine which goat will be sacrificed to me, and which will be the goat that will be set free.
\v 9 Aaron must bring to me the goat that was chosen to be sacrificed. It will be an offering for the people's sins.
\v 10 Aaron must also bring to me the other goat. But it is not to be killed. It will be freed while it is still alive. As a result of Aaron sending it into the desert, the people's sins will be forgiven.
\p
\v 11 Then Aaron must bring the young bull to me, to be an offering for himself and for his family. He must slaughter that bull to be an offering for their sins, and he must drain the blood into a basin.
\v 12 Then he must take some burning coals from the bronze altar and put them in the incense burner. Then he must fill his hands with fragrant finely-ground incense. Then he must take the incense and the incense burner inside the curtain into the Very Holy Place of the Sacred Tent.
\v 13 There he must put the incense on the burning coals, with the result that a cloud of burning incense will rise up over the lid of the sacred chest. If he obeys these instructions, he will not die like Korah did because of offering incense incorrectly .
\v 14 Then he must dip his finger into the basin and sprinkle some blood on the lid of the sacred chest, and also sprinkle some blood seven times against the front of the chest.
\p
\v 15 Aaron must then go outside the Sacred Tentand slaughter the goat to be an offering for the sins of the people. Then he must bring its blood into the Very Holy Place behind the curtain. There he must sprinkle some of that blood on the lid of the sacred chest and against the front of the chest, like he did with the bull's blood.
\v 16 By doing that, he will purify the Very Holy Place. And he must sprinkle more of the blood on the Sacred Tent, because the tent is in the midst of the camp of the Israelite people who have become unacceptable to me because of their sins.
\v 17 When Aaron goes into the Very Holy Place in the Sacred Tent to purify it, no one else is permitted to enter the other part of the Sacred Tent. Only after Aaron has performed rituals to enable me to forgive him and his family, and all the Israelite people, is any priest permitted to enter the Sacred Tent.
\p
\v 18 Then Aaron must go outside the tent to purify my altar. He must do this by smearing some of the blood from the bull and some of the blood from the goat on each of the projections at the corners of the altar.
\v 19 Then Aaron must dip his finger into the basin of blood and sprinkle some of the blood over the altar seven times. By doing that, he will cleanse it from being unholy because of the sins of the Israelite people, and it will become holy again.
\p
\v 20 When Aaron has finished purifying the Very Holy Place inside the Sacred Tent and all of the Sacred Tent and the altar, he must bring the goat that was chosen to be set free.
\v 21 He must put both of his hands on the head of the goat and confess all the sins  of the Israelite people. By doing that, he will put the guilt of their sins on the head of the goat. Then he must give the goat to a man who is chosen, and that man will send the goat out into the desert.
\v 22 It is as though the goat will carry away into the desert the guilt for the sins of all the people.
\p
\v 23 When Aaron approaches the Sacred Tent, he must take off the linen clothes that he wore when he previously entered the Very Holy Place, and he must leave those clothes there.
\v 24 Then he must bathe in a sacred place, put on his regular clothes, and sacrifice the animals that will be burned completely on the altar, for his own sins and for the sins of the Israelite people. By doing that he will enable Yahweh to forgive him and them.
\v 25 He must also burn on the altar all the fat of the two animals that were sacrificed.
\p
\v 26 The man who was chosen to send the goat into the desert and free it there must afterwards wash his clothes and bathe. Then he may return to the camp.
\v 27 The carcasses of the bull and the goat that were slaughtered to be an offering of the animals, the inner organs, and the dung must also be burned.
\v 28 The man who burns those things must then wash his clothes and bathe before he returns to the camp.
\p
\v 29 In October and not do any work. This is a rule, Or: law that will never end. It must be obeyed by you people who have been Israelites all your lives, and also by foreigners who are living among you.
\v 30 On that day, Aaron will perform rituals to enable me to forgive you all, and then I will cleanse you all from the guilt of all your sins.
\v 31 That will be a day for you to rest and not do any work, like the Sabbath days, and you must fast all that day. That is a permanent command, Or: law for you all to obey.
\v 32 In future years, this ritual will be performed by the Supreme Priest who is anointed with olive oil and appointed to serve instead of his ancestor Aaron. He must put on the sacred clothes made of linen
\v 33 and offer sacrifices to purify the Very Holy Place, all of the Sacred Tent, the altar, the priests, and all the Israel people like Aaron did.
\v 34 This will be a permanent command for you to obey once every year, to enable Yahweh to forgive you Israelite people for the sins that you have committed."
\p Moses.
