\c 2
\s Colossians 2:1-5
\sr I am exerting myself very greatly on your behalf in order that you might truly know the message about Christ, in order that no one might delude you.
\p
\v 1 In particular, I want you to realize that I am exerting myself very greatly on your behalf, on behalf of those who are in Laodicea city, and on behalf of all those others who have not seen me personally.
\v 2 I am doing this in order that they and you  understand the message that God has now revealed; that is, in order that they and you might truly know the message from God our Father and about Christ,
\v 3 who alone is able to cause them and you to understand thoroughly  this very important message.
\v 4 I am telling you this in order that no one may deceive you by means of arguing persuasively;
\v 5 because, even though I am absent from you physically, I am very concerned about you. At the same time, I am rejoicing because I know that you are united with each other and that you believe firmly in Christ.
\s Colossians 2:6-7
\sr Conduct yourselves as those who are united to such a one as Christ Jesus our Lord should conduct themselves.
\p
\v 6 In a way that is consistent with the message that you received about Christ Jesus, who is our Lord, conduct yourselves as you should, since you have a close relationship with such a one as he is.
\v 7 Specifically, continue believing and practicing  what you were first taught about Christ. Continue to do this more and more; continue to be sure about all the true teaching, just like Epaphras taught it to you. And continue thanking God, our Father, very much for all that he has done for you.
\s Colossians 2:8-15
\sr Make sure that no one makes you become his disciples by teaching you a false religious philosophy, since you are spiritually complete because you are united to Christ.
\p
\v 8 Make sure that no one forces you, and because it teaches what is contrary to the true teaching about Christ.
\v 9 Make sure of this, because it is in Christ's body that God lives completely.
\v 10 And make sure of it because you are spiritually complete because you have a close relationship with Christ, who rules over every being that rules.
\v 11 Specifically, because of your close relationship with him, it is as though , but it means that Christ completely removed your entire self-directed nature.
\v 12 And specifically, when you were baptized, it was as though  God caused you to live again with Christ as a result of your believing that God acted powerfully, specifically, by your believing that God raised Christ from among dead people.
\v 13 And specifically, you who are non-Jews, because of your sins, you were spiritually dead before you trusted in Christ. You were uncircumcised spiritually; that is, your self-directed nature controlled you. Nevertheless, it was you whom God caused to become alive spiritually  with Christ. And specifically, God forgave us all our sins.
\v 14 It is just as though he canceled the document it was that document, Or: paper that he removed by nailing it to the cross when they nailed Christ on the cross.
\v 15 And specifically, God defeated the evil spirit beings that rule, and he demonstrated that publicly; that is, he triumphed over them as a result of what Christ did.
\s Colossians 2:16-19
\sr Disregard those who condemn you because you do not obey certain regulations and because you do not worship God as they insist that you should.
\p
\v 16 So disregard anyone who says that God will punish you because you eat certain foods and because you drink certain drinks or because you do not celebrate special yearly festivals or celebrate the time when the new moon appears or weekly Sabbaths.
\v 17 Disregard such people because those regulations that is cast by something that is approaching; that is, they merely represent the real spiritual blessings that Christ has given to you.
\v 18 Disregard those who say that God will punish you because you do not worship God in the way that they say that you should; that is, they insist that you should humiliate yourselves and that you should worship the angels. Disregard such people since they base their authority on things that they have never seen, and since they are proud without reason because their self-directed nature controls what they think,
\v 19 and since they do not teach the true teaching about Christ  a person's head directs how his body grows, as it is held together by its joints and ligaments.
\s Colossians 2:20-23
\sr Do not submit to elementary regulations, which are concerned merely with what is external.
\p
\v 20 It is as though 
\v 21 such as 'Do not handle certain things,' 'Do not taste certain things,' 'Do not touch certain things,' as if you still had to obey such regulations.
\v 22 All those things are intended to cease to exist when we use them. And do not submit to such regulations, because they are what mere human teachers command and teach.
\v 23 Do not obey such regulations do not help people at all to not do the sinful things that their self-directed nature wants to do.
