\c 1
\s1 Ezekiel saw Yahweh's glory
\p
\v 1-2 I am Ezekiel, a priest, the son of Buzi. When I was 30 years old, I was living among the Israelite people who had been exiled from Judah and come to Babylon. I was living along the Kebar River, Or: Canal south of Babylon. On the fifth day of the fourth month of that year, it was as though the sky was opened and I saw visions from God.
\p On the fifth day of the fourth month, which was almost five years after King Jehoiachin had been exiled,
\v 3 God gave me messages here in Babylonia, and I felt the power  of Yahweh on me.
\p
\v 4 In one of the visions, I saw a windstorm coming from the north. There was a huge cloud, and lighting was flashing continually, and a brilliant light surrounded the cloud. In the center of where the lightning was flashing there was something that resembled glowing bronze.
\v 5 In the center of the storm I saw what resembled four living creatures. They resembled humans,
\v 6 but each of them had four faces and four wings .
\v 7 Their legs were straight. Their feet resembled the hooves of calves, and the creatures shone like polished bronze.
\v 8 On their four sides under their wings there were hands like humans have.
\v 9 As the four creatures stood there, they formed a circle, with their wings touching each other. They did not turn when they were moving; they went straight ahead.
\p
\v 10 Each of the creatures had four faces. In front there was a face that resembled a human face. The face on the right side resembled a lion's face. The face on the left side resembled an ox's face. The face in back resembled an eagle's face.
\v 11 Two of each creature's wings were lifted up and touched the wings of the creatures that were on each side. The other two wings were folded against the creature's body.
\v 12 The creatures went straight ahead in whatever direction the spirit that controlled them wanted them to go, without changing directions while they were moving.
\v 13 The four creatures resembled burning coals or torches. A blazing fire moved back and forth among the creatures, and lighting flashed from among them.
\v 14 The creatures moved back and forth extremely rapidly, like  flashes of lightning.
\p
\v 15 While I looked at the four living creatures, I saw a wheel on the ground beside each of them.
\v 16 Each of the wheels was the same, and they all shone like . Each seemed to have one wheel inside another wheel.
\v 17 Whenever they moved, they would go straight in one of the four directions that they faced; they did not turn in another direction while they moved.
\v 18 The rims of the wheels were covered with eyes.
\p
\v 19 Whenever the living creatures moved, the wheels moved with them. So whenever the creatures rose up from the ground, the wheels also rose up.
\v 20 Wherever the spirit that controlled the creatures wanted the creatures to go, they went, and the wheels went with them, because the spirit that controlled.
\v 21 Whenever the creatures moved, the wheels moved. Whenever the creatures stood still, the wheels stopped. Whenever the creatures rose up from the ground, the wheels rose up with them.
\p
\v 22 Above the heads of the creatures there was something that resembled a dome. It shone like ice  shines, and it was awesome.
\v 23 Under the dome, the creatures stretched out their wings. Each one had two wings that stretched towards the creatures that were on each side of it, and two wings that were against the creature's body.
\v 24 Whenever the creatures moved, their wings made a sound that resembled the roar made by a rushing stream. It also sounded like the voice of Almighty God, and like  the noise of a huge army marching. Whenever the creatures stood still on the ground, they lowered their wings.
\p
\v 25 While they stood on the ground with their wings lowered, there was a voice from the dome that was over their heads.
\v 26 Above the dome was something that resembled a huge throne that was made of a huge sapphire. Sitting on the throne was someone that resembled a human.
\v 27 I saw that above his waist he resembled metal that was glowing as though it had a very hot fire inside it. And I saw that below his waist there was a very brilliant light that surrounded it.
\v 28 It shone like  a rainbow shines in the clouds on a rainy day.
\p That was the brilliant light that represented the presence of Yahweh. When I saw it, I prostrated myself on the ground, and I heard him speak.
