\c 25
\s1 A prophecy about the people of Ammon
\p
\v 1 Some time later, Yahweh gave me another message. He said,
\v 2 "You human, turn toward where the Ammon people-group lives, and prophesy about what will happen to them.
\v 3 Say about them, 'This is what Yahweh the Lord says: You shouted joyfully when my temple in Jerusalem was destroyed, and when the country.
\v 4 Therefore, I am going to allow you to be conquered by people who will come from the east. They will set up their tents in your country and live there. And they will eat the fruit from your fruit trees and drink the milk from your cattle.
\v 5 I will cause your capital city Rabbah to become a pasture for camels, and the rest of Ammon to become only a resting place for sheep. Then you will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do.
\v 6 This is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: You clapped your hands joyfully and stomped your feet, and laughed because you despised the people in the land of Israel.
\v 7 Therefore, I will use my power , with the result that you no longer will be a nation. When that happens, people will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do.'~"
\s1 A prophecy about the people of Moab
\p
\v 8 This is also what Yahweh the Lord says: "The people of Moab south of Ammon and the people of Seir south of Moab despised Israel and said, 'The people  of Israel have become as unimportant as all the other nations!'
\v 9 Therefore, I will destroy the cities that protect the borders of Moab, starting at Beth-Jeshimoth, Baal-Meon, and Kiriathaim, the finest cities in Moab.
\v 10 I will enable people from the east to conquer Moab and also to conquer Ammon. As the result, just like I will cause that Ammon will no longer be remembered by other nations,
\v 11 I will also punish the people of Moab. When that happens, people will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do."
\s1 A prophecy about the people of Edom
\p
\v 12 This is also what Yahweh the Lord says: "You people of Edom are guilty of getting revenge on the people  of Judah.
\v 13 Therefore this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: I will use my power against the people of Edom and will get rid of their men and their animals. I will ruin the land from Teman region in central Edom to Dedan region in the south of Edom, while many of their men are killed by their enemies swords.
\v 14 The Israelite people will use their power  them. The people of Edom will experience my getting revenge on them. Then people will know that I, Yahweh the Lord, have the power to do what I say that I will do."
\s1 A prophecy about the people of Philistia
\p
\v 15 This is also what Yahweh the Lord says: "The Philistia people-group wanted very much to get revenge on the people of Judah. They very maliciously wanted to destroy Judah.
\v 16 Therefore this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: I am about to use my power  against the Philistia people. I will get rid of the Kereth people-group and all those who live along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea.
\v 17 I will get great revenge on them and show that I am angry with them by the way I punish them. And when I get revenge on them, they will know that I, Yahweh the Lord, have the power to do what I say that I will do."
