\c 34
\s1 A parable about the leaders of Israel
\p
\v 1 Yahweh gave me another message. He said,
\v 2 "You human, prophesy about the leaders of Israel. They should be taking care of my people like  a shepherd takes care of his flock of sheep!
\v 3 It is as though you eat the curds, you slaughter the very good animals and wear clothes made from their wool. But you do not take care of the flock.
\v 4 You have not enabled those who are weak to become strong. You have not healed those who were sick. You have not bandaged those who were wounded. You have not brought back those who went astray. You have not searched for those who became lost. You have ruled your people harshly and cruelly.
\v 5 So they were scattered, because you did not take care of them like like   a shepherd takes care of his sheep. And when they were scattered, it was as though wild animals attacked and killed them and ate their flesh.
\v 6 My people wandered like sheep all over the high hills and mountains. They were scattered all over the earth, and no one searched for them .
\p
\v 7 Therefore, you who should be acting like shepherds, listen to what I,Yahweh the Lord say:
\v 8 As surely as I am alive, my people are like a flock of sheep that has no shepherd, and as a result it is as though wild animals have attacked my people and eaten them. You did not search for them; instead, you you only wanted to provide food for yourselves.
\v 9 Therefore, you who should be like  shepherds, listen to what I, Yahweh say:
\v 10 I am opposed to you leaders who should be like  shepherds for my people. I will remove you from taking care of my people, with the result that you will no longer feed yourselves instead of feeding them. I will rescue my people from you, with the result that you will longer be able to butcher them and eat them.'
\p
\v 11 This is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say to you leaders: 'I myself will search for my sheep and take care of them.
\v 12 Like a shepherd takes care of his sheep when he is with them, I will rescue my people from all the places to which they have been scattered, at a time when things were very gloomy and they experienced disasters.
\v 13 I will bring them back from those countries and gather them together again in their own land. Because it is as though they are my sheep , it is as though I will enable them to find good pastureland on the hills of Israel, and in the ravines, and in the villages of Israel.
\v 14 It is as though I will allow them to graze in good pastures on the mountaintops. They will lie down in good grazing areas.
\v 15 I myself will take care of my people and enable them to lie down and rest.
\v 16 I will search for those who are lost and bring back the ones who have strayed away. I will bandage those who have been injured and strengthen those who are weak. But I will get rid of those who are fat and powerful. I will act fairly toward the people who are like  my sheep. That is what I, Yahweh, promise.'
\p
\v 17 And as for you who are like  my sheep, this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: 'I will judge between each of you; and I will separate between those that are peaceful like sheep and those that are always trying to dominate others like goats.
\v 18 It is bad that  with your feet you cause the other water to become muddy.
\v 19 It is as though you  are forcing my flock to eat the grass that you have trampled and to drink the water that you have caused to become muddy!
\p
\v 20 Therefore, this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say to you: I myself will judge between those of you who are like  the fat sheep and those of you who are like the thin sheep.
\v 21 You who are like strong sheep, with your shoulders and buttocks you have shoved awaythose who are like thin sheep, and you have butted them with your horns, until you have chased them all away from the good pastureland.
\v 22 But I will rescue my people, and they no longer will be harassed. I will judge between one person and another.
\v 23 And I will appoint one leader  for them, someone who will be like King David, who served me very well. That leader will take care of them and be like their shepherd.
\v 24 I, Yahweh, will be their God, and the one who is like  King David will be their king. That will surely happen because I, Yahweh, have said it.
\p
\v 25 I will make a peace agreement with the people of Israel. In this agreement I will promise to get rid of all the wild animals in Israel, in order that my people may live safely, even in the desert and in the forests.
\v 26 I will bless them, and I will bless the places close to my sacred hill. I will bless them by sending them rain showers at the right season; they will be showers to bless them.
\v 27 The fruit trees will produce fruit and the ground will produce crops. And my people will live safely in their land. When I rescue them from people who caused them to be slaves , they will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do.
\v 28 Soldiers from other nations will no longer take away their valuable possessions, and wild animals will no longer attack them. They will live safely, and no one will cause them to be afraid.
\v 29 I will cause their land to be famous-known for its good crops. There will no longer be famines in the land, and people in other nations will no longer ridicule them.
\v 30 Then they will know that I, Yahweh their God, am helping them, and they will know that they, the Israelite people, are my people.
\v 31 It will be as though  you, my people, are my sheep whom I will take care of, and I will be your God. That is what I, Yahweh the Lord, declare.'~"
