\c 2
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when Jehovah would take up Elijah by a whirlwind into heaven, that Elijah went with Elisha from
Gilgal.
\v 2 And Elijah said to Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee; for Jehovah has sent me as far as Beth-el. And Elisha said, As
Jehovah liveth, and as your soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Beth-el.
\v 3 And the sons of the prophets that were at Beth-el came forth to Elisha, and said to him, Know you that Jehovah will
take away your master from your head to-day? And he said, Yea, I know it; hold you your peace.
\v 4 And Elijah said to him, Elisha, wait here, I pray thee; for Jehovah has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As Jehovah
liveth, and as your soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho.
\v 5 And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came near to Elisha, and said to him, Know you that Jehovah will
take away your master from your head to-day? And he answered, Yea, I know it; hold you your peace.
\v 6 And Elijah said to him, Tarry here, I pray thee; for Jehovah has sent me to the Jordan. And he said, As Jehovah liveth,
and as your soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they two went on.
\v 7 And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood over against them afar off: and they two stood by the Jordan.
\v 8 And Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and struck the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so
that they two went over on dry ground.
\v 9 And it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I am
taken from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of your spirit be upon me.
\v 10 And he said, You have asked a hard thing: nevertheless, if you see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be
so to thee; but if not, it shall not be so.
\v 11 And it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that, behold,
there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, which parted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by a
whirlwind into heaven.
\v 12 And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen thereof!
\p And he saw him no more: and he took hold of his own clothes, and tore them in two pieces.
\v 13 He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of the Jordan.
\v 14 And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and struck the waters, and said, Where is Jehovah, the God of Elijah?
and when he also had struck the waters, they were divided hither and thither; and Elisha went over.
\p
\v 15 And when the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho over against him saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah does
rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.
\v 16 And they said to him, Behold now, there are with your servants fifty strong men; let them go, we pray thee, and seek your
master, lest the Spirit of Jehovah has taken him up, and cast him upon some mountain, or into some valley. And he said, You
shall not send.
\v 17 And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. They sent therefore fifty men; and they sought three days,
but found him not.
\v 18 And they came back to him, while he tarried at Jericho; and he said to them, Did I not say to you, Go not?
\p
\v 19 And the men of the city said to Elisha, Behold, we pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord seeth:
but the water is bad, and the land miscarrieth.
\v 20 And he said, Bring me a new cruse, and put salt therein. And they brought it to him.
\v 21 And he went forth to the spring of the waters, and cast salt therein, and said, Thus says Jehovah, I have healed these
waters; there shall not be from thence any more death or miscarrying.
\v 22 So the waters were healed to this day, according to the word of Elisha which he spake.
\p
\v 23 And he went up from thence to Beth-el; and as he was going up by the way, there came forth young lads out of the city,
and mocked him, and said to him, Go up, you baldhead; go up, you baldhead.
\v 24 And he looked behind him and saw them, and cursed them in the name of Jehovah. And there came forth two she-bears out of
the wood, and tare forty and two lads of them.
\v 25 And he went from thence to mount Carmel, and from thence he returned to Samaria.