\c 4
\p
\v 1 Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets to Elisha, saying, Your servant my husband is
dead; and you know that your servant did fear Jehovah: and the creditor is come to take to him my two children to be
bondmen.
\v 2 And Elisha said to her, What shall I do for thee? tell me; what have you in the house? And she said, Your handmaid has
not anything in the house, save a pot of oil.
\v 3 Then he said, Go, borrow you vessels abroad of all your neighbors, even empty vessels; borrow not a few.
\v 4 And you shall go in, and shut the door upon you and upon your sons, and pour out into all those vessels; and you shall
set aside that which is full.
\v 5 So she went from him, and shut the door upon her and upon her sons; they brought
the vessels to her, and she poured out.
\v 6 And it came to pass, when the vessels were full, that she said to her son, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said to her,
There is not a vessel more. And the oil stayed.
\v 7 Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go, sell the oil, and pay your debt, and live you and your sons of the
rest.
\p
\v 8 And it fell on a day, that Elisha passed to Shunem, where was a great woman; and she constrained him to eat bread. And so
it was, that as often as he passed by, he turned in there to eat bread.
\v 9 And she said to her husband, Behold now, I perceive that this is a holy man of God, that passes by us continually.
\v 10 Let us make, I pray thee, a little chamber on the wall; and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a seat, and
a candlestick: and it shall be, when he comes to us, that he shall turn in thither.
\v 11 And it fell on a day, that he came thither, and he turned into the chamber and lay there.
\v 12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. And when he had called her, she stood before him.
\v 13 And he said to him, Say now to her, Behold, you have been careful for us with all this care; what is to be done for
thee? would you be spoken for to the king, or to the captain of the host? And she answered, I dwell among mine own people.
\v 14 And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi answered, Verily she has no son, and her husband is old.
\v 15 And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood in the door.
\v 16 And he said, At this season, when the time comes round, you shall embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, you man
of God, do not lie to your handmaid.
\p
\v 17 And the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season, when the time came round, as Elisha had said to her.
\v 18 And when the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went out to his father to the reapers.
\v 19 And he said to his father, My head, my head. And he said to his servant, Carry him to his mother.
\v 20 And when he had taken him, and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees till noon, and then died.
\v 21 And she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut
the door upon him, and went out.
\v 22 And she called to her husband, and said, Send me, I pray thee, one of the servants, and one of the asses, that I may
run to the man of God, and come again.
\v 23 And he said, Wherefore will you go to him to-day? it is neither new moon nor sabbath. And she said, It shall be well.
\v 24 Then she saddled an ass, and said to her servant, Drive, and go forward; slacken me not the riding, except I command thee.
\v 25 So she went, and came to the man of God to mount Carmel.
\p And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, that he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is the
Shunammite:
\v 26 run, I pray thee, now to meet her, and say to her, Is it well with thee? is it well with your husband? is it well with
the child? And she answered, It is well.
\v 27 And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught hold of his feet. And Gehazi came near to thrust her away;
but the man of God said, Let her alone: for her soul is vexed within her; and Jehovah has hid it from me, and has not told
me.
\v 28 Then she said, Did I desire a son of my lord? did I not say, Do not deceive me?
\v 29 Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up your loins, and take my staff in your hand, and go your way: if you meet any man, salute
him not; and if any salute thee, answer him not again: and lay my staff upon the face of the child.
\v 30 And the mother of the child said, As Jehovah liveth, and as your soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose, and
followed her.
\v 31 And Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff upon the face of the child; but there was neither voice, nor
hearing. Wherefore he returned to meet him, and told him, saying, The child is not awaked.
\p
\v 32 And when Elisha was come into the house, behold, the child was dead, and laid upon his bed.
\v 33 He went in therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed to Jehovah.
\v 34 And he went up, and lay upon the child, and put his mouth upon his mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon
his hands: and he stretched himself upon him; and the flesh of the child waxed warm.
\v 35 Then he returned, and walked in the house once to and fro; and went up, and stretched himself upon him: and the child
sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.
\v 36 And he called Gehazi, and said, Call this Shunammite. So he called her. And when she was come in to him, he said, Take
up your son.
\v 37 Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground; and she took up her son, and went out.
\p
\v 38 And Elisha came again to Gilgal. And there was a dearth in the land; and the sons of the prophets were sitting before
him; and he said to his servant, Set on the great pot, and boil pottage for the sons of the prophets.
\v 39 And one went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine, and gathered thereof wild gourds his lap full,
and came and shred them into the pot of pottage; for they knew them not.
\v 40 So they poured out for the men to eat. And it came to pass, as they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out, and
said, O man of God, there is death in the pot. And they could not eat thereof.
\v 41 But he said, Then bring meal. And he cast it into the pot; and he said, Pour out for the people, that they may eat. And
there was no harm in the pot.
\p
\v 42 And there came a man from Baal-shalishah, and brought the man of God bread of the first-fruits, twenty loaves of barley,
and fresh ears of grain in his sack. And he said, Give to the people, that they may eat.
\v 43 And his servant said, What, should I set this before a hundred men? But he said, Give the people, that they may eat; for
thus says Jehovah, They shall eat, and shall leave thereof.
\v 44 So he set it before them, and they did eat, and left thereof, according to the word of Jehovah.