\c 9
\p
\v 1 And Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets, and said to him, Gird up your loins, and take this vial of
oil in your hand, and go to Ramoth-gilead.
\v 2 And when you come thither, look out there Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi, and go in, and make him arise
up from among his brethren, and carry him to an inner chamber.
\v 3 Then take the vial of oil, and pour it on his head, and say, Thus says Jehovah, I have anointed you king over Israel.
Then open the door, and flee, and wait not.
\v 4 So the young man, even the young man the prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead.
\v 5 And when he came, behold, the captains of the host were sitting; and he said, I have an errand to thee, O captain. And
Jehu said, To which of us all? And he said, To thee, O captain.
\v 6 And he arose, and went into the house; and he poured the oil on his head, and said to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God
of Israel, I have anointed you king over the people of Jehovah, even over Israel.
\v 7 And you shall strike the house of Ahab your master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood
of all the servants of Jehovah, at the hand of Jezebel.
\v 8 For the whole house of Ahab shall perish; and I will cut off from Ahab every man-child, and him that is shut up and him
that is left at large in Israel.
\v 9 And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of
Ahijah.
\v 10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall be none to bury her. And he opened the door,
and fled.
\p
\v 11 Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said to him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to
thee? And he said to them, You know the man and what his talk was.
\v 12 And they said, It is false; tell us now. And he said, Thus and thus spoke he to me, saying, Thus says Jehovah, I have
anointed you king over Israel.
\v 13 Then they hasted, and took every man his garment, and put it under him on the top of the stairs, and blew the trumpet,
saying, Jehu is king.
\p
\v 14 So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. (Now Joram was keeping Ramoth-gilead, he and
all Israel, because of Hazael king of Syria;
\v 15 but king Joram was returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him, when he fought with
Hazael king of Syria.) And Jehu said, If this be your mind, then let none escape and go forth out of the city, to go to tell it
in Jezreel.
\v 16 So Jehu rode in a chariot, and went to Jezreel; for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah was come down to see
Joram.
\p
\v 17 Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel, and he spied the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a
company. And Joram said, Take a horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace?
\v 18 So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said, Thus says the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What have you to
do with peace? turn you behind me. And the watchman told, saying, The messenger came to them, but he comes not back.
\v 19 Then he sent out a second on horseback, who came to them, and said, Thus says the king, Is it peace? And Jehu answered,
What have you to do with peace? turn you behind me.
\v 20 And the watchman told, saying, He came even to them, and comes not back: and the driving is like the driving of Jehu
the son of Nimshi; for he drives furiously.
\p
\v 21 And Joram said, Make ready. And they made ready his chariot. And Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out,
each in his chariot, and they went out to meet Jehu, and found him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite.
\v 22 And it came to pass, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, Is it peace, Jehu? And he answered, What peace, so long as the
whoredoms of your mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?
\v 23 And Joram turned his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, There is treachery, O Ahaziah.
\v 24 And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength, and struck Joram between his arms; and the arrow went out at his heart, and
he sunk down in his chariot.
\v 25 Then said Jehu to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him in the portion of the field of Naboth the
Jezreelite; for remember how that, when I and you rode together after Ahab his father, Jehovah laid this burden upon him:
\v 26 Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth, and the blood of his sons, says Jehovah; and I will requite you in
this plat, says Jehovah. Now therefore take and cast him into the plat
of ground, according to the word of Jehovah.
\p
\v 27 But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden-house. And Jehu followed after him, and
said, Strike him also in the chariot: and they struck him at the ascent of Gur, which is by Ibleam. And he fled to
Megiddo, and died there.
\v 28 And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of
David.
\p
\v 29 And in the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab began Ahaziah to reign over Judah.
\p
\v 30 And when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it; and she painted her eyes, and attired her head, and looked out at
the window.
\v 31 And as Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, Is it peace, you Zimri, your master’s murderer?
\v 32 And he lifted up his face to the window, and said, Who is on my side? who? And there looked out to him two or three
eunuchs.
\v 33 And he said, Throw her down. So they threw her down; and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall, and on the horses:
and he trod her under foot.
\v 34 And when he was come in, he did eat and drink; and he said, See now to this cursed woman, and bury her; for she is a
king’s daughter.
\v 35 And they went to bury her; but they found no more of her than the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.
\v 36 Wherefore they came back, and told him. And he said, This is the word of Jehovah, which he spoke by his servant Elijah
the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel shall the dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel;
\v 37 and the body of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel, so that they shall not
say, This is Jezebel.