\c 10
\p
\v 1 Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria, to the rulers of Jezreel, even the
elders, and to them that brought up the sons of Ahab, saying,
\v 2 And now as soon as this letter comes to you, seeing your master’s sons are with you, and there are with you chariots and
horses, a fortified city also, and armor;
\v 3 look you out the best and meet of your master’s sons, and set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your master’s
house.
\v 4 But they were exceedingly afraid, and said, Behold, the two kings stood not before him: how then shall we stand?
\v 5 And he that was over the household, and he that was over the city, the elders also, and they that brought up
the children, sent to Jehu, saying, We are your servants, and will do all that you shall command us; we will not make any
man king: do you that which is good in your eyes.
\v 6 Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, If you be on my side, and if you will listen to my voice, take you
the heads of the men your master’s sons, and come to me to Jezreel by to-morrow this time. Now the king’s sons, being seventy
persons, were with the great men of the city, who brought them up.
\v 7 And it came to pass, when the letter came to them, that they took the king’s sons, and killed them, even seventy persons,
and put their heads in baskets, and sent them to him to Jezreel.
\v 8 And there came a messenger, and told him, saying, They have brought the heads of the king’s sons. And he said, Lay you them
in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until the morning.
\v 9 And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out, and stood, and said to all the people, You are righteous: behold, I
conspired against my master, and killed him; but who struck all these?
\v 10 Know now that there shall fall to the earth nothing of the word of Jehovah, which Jehovah spoke concerning the house of
Ahab: for Jehovah has done that which he spoke by his servant Elijah.
\v 11 So Jehu struck all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great men, and his familiar friends, and his
priests, until he left him none remaining.
\p
\v 12 And he arose and departed, and went to Samaria. And as he was at the shearing-house of the shepherds in the way,
\v 13 Jehu met with the brethren of Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye? And they answered, We are the brethren of
Ahaziah: and we go down to salute the children of the king and the children of the queen.
\v 14 And he said, Take them alive. And they took them alive, and killed them at the pit of the shearing-house, even two and
forty men; neither left he any of them.
\p
\v 15 And when he was departed thence, he lighted on Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him; and he saluted him, and
said to him, Is your heart right, as my heart is with your heart? And Jehonadab answered, It is. If it be, give me your hand. And
he gave him his hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.
\v 16 And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for Jehovah. So they made him ride in his chariot.
\v 17 And when he came to Samaria, he struck all that remained to Ahab in Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the
word of Jehovah, which he spoke to Elijah.
\p
\v 18 And Jehu gathered all the people together, and said to them, Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu will serve him much.
\v 19 Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his worshippers, and all his priests; let none be wanting: for I
have a great sacrifice to do to Baal; whoever shall be wanting, he shall not live. But Jehu did it in subtlety, to
the intent that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal.
\v 20 And Jehu said, Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal. And they proclaimed it.
\v 21 And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not.
And they came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was filled from one end to another.
\v 22 And he said to him that was over the vestry, Bring forth vestments for all the worshippers of Baal. And he brought them
forth vestments.
\v 23 And Jehu went, and Jehonadab the son of Rechab, into the house of Baal; and he said to the worshippers of Baal, Search,
and look that there be here with you none of the servants of Jehovah, but the worshippers of Baal only.
\v 24 And they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt-offerings. Now Jehu had appointed him fourscore men without, and said, If
any of the men whom I bring into your hands escape, he that lets him
go, his life shall be for the life of him.
\p
\v 25 And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the
captains, Go in, and kill them; let none come forth. And they struck them with the edge of the sword; and the guard and the
captains cast them out, and went to the city of the house of Baal.
\v 26 And they brought forth the pillars that were in the house of Baal, and burned them.
\v 27 And they brake down the pillar of Baal, and brake down the house of Baal, and made it a draught-house, to this day.
\v 28 Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.
\p
\v 29 Howbeit from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherewith he made Israel to sin, Jehu departed not from after them,
to wit, the golden calves that were in Beth-el, and that were in Dan.
\v 30 And Jehovah said to Jehu, Because you have done well in executing that which is right in mine eyes,
and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, your sons of the fourth generation shall
sit on the throne of Israel.
\v 31 But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of Jehovah, the God of Israel, with all his heart: he departed not from the sins
of Jeroboam, wherewith he made Israel to sin.
\p
\v 32 In those days Jehovah began to cut off from Israel: and Hazael struck them in all the borders of Israel;
\v 33 from the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer, which
is by the valley of the Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan.
\v 34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all his might, are they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Israel?
\v 35 And Jehu slept with his fathers; and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead.
\v 36 And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty and eight years.