\c 17
\p
\v 1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah began Hoshea the son of Elah to reign in Samaria over Israel,
and reigned nine years.
\v 2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, yet not as the kings of Israel that were before him.
\v 3 Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria; and Hoshea became his servant, and brought him tribute.
\v 4 And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea; for he had sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and offered no tribute
to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year: therefore the king of Assyria shut him up, and bound him in prison.
\v 5 Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and went up to Samaria, and besieged it three years.
\v 6 In the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Assyria took Samaria, and carried Israel away to Assyria, and placed them in
Halah, and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.
\p
\v 7 And it was so, because the children of Israel had sinned against Jehovah their God, who brought them up out of the land of
Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other gods,
\v 8 and walked in the statutes of the nations, whom Jehovah cast out from before the children of Israel, and of the kings of
Israel, which they made.
\v 9 And the children of Israel did secretly things that were not right against Jehovah their God: and they built them high
places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fortified city;
\v 10 and they set them up pillars and Asherim upon every high hill, and under every green tree;
\v 11 and there they burnt incense in all the high places, as did the nations whom Jehovah carried away before them; and they
wrought wicked things to provoke Jehovah to anger;
\v 12 and they served idols, whereof Jehovah had said to them, You shall not do this thing.
\v 13 Yet Jehovah testified to Israel, and to Judah, by every prophet, and every seer, saying, Turn you from your evil ways,
and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by
my servants the prophets.
\v 14 Notwithstanding, they would not hear, but hardened their neck, like to the neck of their fathers, who believed not in
Jehovah their God.
\v 15 And they rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified
to them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and went after the nations that were round about them,
concerning whom Jehovah had charged them that they should not do like them.
\v 16 And they forsook all the commandments of Jehovah their God, and made them molten images, even two calves, and made an
Asherah, and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served Baal.
\v 17 And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold
themselves to do that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger.
\v 18 Therefore Jehovah was very angry with Israel, and removed them out of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of
Judah only.
\p
\v 19 Also Judah kept not the commandments of Jehovah their God, but walked in the statutes of Israel which they made.
\v 20 And Jehovah rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted them, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he
had cast them out of his sight.
\v 21 For he tore Israel from the house of David; and they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king: and Jeroboam drove Israel from
following Jehovah, and made them sin a great sin.
\v 22 And the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did; they departed not from them;
\v 23 until Jehovah removed Israel out of his sight, as he spoke by all his servants the prophets. So Israel was carried away
out of their own land to Assyria to this day.
\p
\v 24 And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and from Cuthah, and from Avva, and from Hamath and Sepharvaim, and
placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel; and they possessed Samaria, and lived in the cities
thereof.
\v 25 And so it was, at the beginning of their dwelling there, that they feared not Jehovah: therefore Jehovah sent lions among
them, which killed some of them.
\v 26 Wherefore they spoke to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations which you have carried away, and placed in the cities
of Samaria, know not the law of the god of the land: therefore he has sent lions among them, and, behold, they kill them,
because they know not the law of the god of the land.
\p
\v 27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry there one of the priests whom you brought from thence; and let them go
and dwell there, and let him teach them the law of the god of the land.
\v 28 So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and lived in Beth-el, and taught them how they should
fear Jehovah.
\v 29 Howbeit every nation made gods of their own, and put them in the houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made,
every nation in their cities wherein they dwelt.
\v 30 And the men of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, and the men of Cuth made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,
\v 31 and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites burnt their children in the fire to Adrammelech and
Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.
\v 32 So they feared Jehovah, and made to them from among themselves priests of the high places, who sacrificed for them in
the houses of the high places.
\v 33 They feared Jehovah, and served their own gods, after the manner of the nations from among whom they had been carried
away.
\p
\v 34 To this day they do after the former manner: they fear not Jehovah, neither do they after their statutes, or after
their ordinances, or after the law or after the commandment which Jehovah commanded the children of Jacob, whom he named
Israel;
\v 35 with whom Jehovah had made a covenant, and charged them, saying, You shall not fear other gods, nor bow yourselves to
them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them:
\v 36 but Jehovah, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with great power and with an outstretched arm, him shall you
fear, and to him shall you bow yourselves, and to him shall you sacrifice:
\v 37 and the statutes and the ordinances, and the law and the commandment, which he wrote for you, you shall observe to do for
evermore; and you shall not fear other gods:
\v 38 and the covenant that I have made with you you shall not forget; neither shall you fear other gods:
\v 39 but Jehovah your God shall you fear; and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.
\v 40 Howbeit they did not hearken, but they did after their former manner.
\v 41 So these nations feared Jehovah, and served their graven images; their children likewise, and their children’s children,
as did their fathers, so do they to this day.