\c 20
\p
\v 1 In those days was Hezekiah sick to death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him, and said to him, Thus
says Jehovah, Set your house in order; for you shall die, and not live.
\v 2 Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed to Jehovah, saying,
\v 3 Remember now, O Jehovah, I beseech you, how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done
that which is good in your sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.
\v 4 And it came to pass, before Isaiah was gone out into the middle part of the city, that the word of Jehovah came to him,
saying,
\v 5 Turn back, and say to Hezekiah the prince of my people, Thus says Jehovah, the God of David your father, I have heard your
prayer, I have seen your tears: behold, I will heal thee; on the third day you shall go up to the house of Jehovah.
\v 6 And I will add to your days fifteen years; and I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria;
and I will defend this city for mine own sake, and for my servant David’s sake.
\v 7 And Isaiah said, Take a cake of figs. And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
\p
\v 8 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, What shall be the sign that Jehovah will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of
Jehovah the third day?
\v 9 And Isaiah said, This shall be the sign to you from Jehovah, that Jehovah will do the thing that he has spoken: shall
the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?
\v 10 And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to decline ten steps: nay, but let the shadow return backward
ten steps.
\v 11 And Isaiah the prophet cried to Jehovah; and he brought the shadow ten steps backward, by which it had gone down on the
dial of Ahaz.
\p
\v 12 At that time Berodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah; for he had
heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
\v 13 And Hezekiah listened to them, and showed them all the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the
spices, and the precious oil, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his
house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah showed them not.
\v 14 Then came Isaiah the prophet to king Hezekiah, and said to him, What said these men? and from whence came they to
thee? And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country, even from Babylon.
\v 15 And he said, What have they seen in your house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in my house have they seen: there is
nothing among my treasures that I have not showed them.
\p
\v 16 And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of Jehovah.
\v 17 Behold, the days come, that all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have laid up in store to this day,
shall be carried to Babylon: nothing shall be left, says Jehovah.
\v 18 And of your sons that shall issue from thee, whom you shall beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the
palace of the king of Babylon.
\v 19 Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, Good is the word of Jehovah which you have spoken. He said moreover, Is it not so, if
peace and truth shall be in my days?
\v 20 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made the pool, and the conduit, and brought water
into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
\v 21 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers; and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.