\c 22
\p
\v 1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned thirty and one years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name
was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath.
\v 2 And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and walked in all the way of David his father, and turned not
aside to the right hand or to the left.
\p
\v 3 And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, that the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah the son of
Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of Jehovah, saying,
\v 4 Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may sum the money which is brought into the house of Jehovah, which the keepers
of the threshold have gathered of the people:
\v 5 and let them deliver it into the hand of the workmen that have the oversight of the house of Jehovah; and let them give it
to the workmen that are in the house of Jehovah, to repair the breaches of the house,
\v 6 to the carpenters, and to the builders, and to the masons, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the house.
\v 7 Howbeit there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand; for they dealt faithfully.
\p
\v 8 And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of Jehovah. And
Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
\v 9 And Shaphan the scribe came to the king, and brought the king word again, and said, Your servants have emptied out the
money that was found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen that have the oversight of the house of
Jehovah.
\v 10 And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the
king.
\v 11 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, that he tore his clothes.
\v 12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the
scribe, and Asaiah the king’s servant, saying,
\v 13 Go ye, inquire of Jehovah for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that is found;
for great is the wrath of Jehovah that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not listened to the words of this
book, to do according to all that which is written concerning us.
\p
\v 14 So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah, went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of
Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the second quarter); and
they communed with her.
\v 15 And she said to them, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel: Tell you the man that sent you to me,
\v 16 Thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the words of
the book which the king of Judah has read.
\v 17 Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the
work of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and it shall not be quenched.
\v 18 But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, thus shall you say to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of
Israel: As touching the words which you have heard,
\v 19 because your heart was tender, and you did humble yourself before Jehovah, when you heard what I spoke against this
place, and against the inhabitants thereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and have tore your clothes, and
wept before me; I also have heard thee, says Jehovah.
\v 20 Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, neither shall
your eyes see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought the king word again.