\c 1
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah which came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of
Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah.
\p
\v 2 I will utterly consume all things from off the face of the ground, says Jehovah.
\v 3 I will consume man and beast; I will consume the birds of the heavens, and the fishes of the sea, and the stumbling blocks
with the wicked; and I will cut off man from off the face of the ground, says Jehovah.
\v 4 And I will stretch out my hand upon Judah, and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and I will cut off the remnant of
Baal from this place, and the name of the Chemarim with the priests;
\v 5 and them that worship the host of heaven upon the housetops; and them that worship, that swear to Jehovah and swear by
Malcam;
\v 6 and them that are turned back from following Jehovah; and those that have not sought Jehovah, nor inquired after him.
\p
\v 7 Hold your peace at the presence of the Lord Jehovah; for the day of Jehovah is at hand: for Jehovah has prepared a
sacrifice, he has consecrated his guests.
\v 8 And it shall come to pass in the day of Jehovah’s sacrifice, that I will punish the princes, and the king’s sons, and all
such as are clothed with foreign apparel.
\v 9 And in that day I will punish all those that leap over the threshold, that fill their master’s house with violence and
deceit.
\v 10 And in that day, says Jehovah, there shall be the noise of a cry from the fish gate, and a wailing from the second
quarter, and a great crashing from the hills.
\v 11 Wail, you inhabitants of Maktesh; for all the people of Canaan are undone; all they that were laden with silver are cut
off.
\v 12 And it shall come to pass at that time, that I will search Jerusalem with lamps; and I will punish the men that are
settled on their lees, that say in their heart, Jehovah will not do good, neither will he do evil.
\v 13 And their wealth shall become a spoil, and their houses a desolation: yea, they shall build houses, but shall not inhabit
them; and they shall plant vineyards, but shall not drink the wine thereof.
\p
\v 14 The great day of Jehovah is near, it is near and hastens greatly,
even the voice of the day of Jehovah; the mighty man cries there bitterly.
\v 15 That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and
gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness,
\v 16 a day of the trumpet and alarm, against the fortified cities, and against the high battlements.
\v 17 And I will bring distress upon men, that they shall walk like blind men, because they have sinned against Jehovah; and
their blood shall be poured out as dust, and their flesh as dung.
\v 18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of Jehovah’s wrath; but the whole land shall
be devoured by the fire of his jealousy: for he will make an end, yea, a terrible end, of all them that dwell in the land.