\c 3
\p
\v 1 Woe to her that is rebellious and polluted! to the oppressing city!
\v 2 She obeyed not the voice; she received not correction; she trusted not in Jehovah; she drew not near to her God.
\v 3 Her princes in the midst of her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves; they leave nothing till the morrow.
\v 4 Her prophets are light and treacherous persons; her priests have profaned the sanctuary, they have done violence to the
law.
\v 5 Jehovah in the midst of her is righteous; he will not do iniquity; every morning does he bring his justice to light, he
fails not; but the unjust knows no shame.
\v 6 I have cut off nations; their battlements are desolate; I have made their streets waste, so that none passes by; their
cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, so that there is no inhabitant.
\v 7 I said, Only fear you me; receive correction; so her dwelling shall not be cut off,
according to all that I have appointed concerning her: but they rose early and corrupted all their doings.
\p
\v 8 Therefore wait you for me, says Jehovah, until the day that I rise up to the prey; for my determination is to gather the
nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation, even all my fierce anger; for all the earth
shall be devoured with the fire of my jealousy.
\p
\v 9 For then will I turn to the peoples of a pure language, that they may all call upon the name of Jehovah, to serve him with
one consent.
\v 10 From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia my suppliants, even the daughter of my dispersed, shall bring mine offering.
\v 11 In that day shall you not be put to shame for all your doings, wherein you have transgressed against me; for then I will
take away out of the midst of you your proudly exulting ones, and you shall no more be haughty in my holy mountain.
\v 12 But I will leave in the midst of you an afflicted and poor people, and they shall take refuge in the name of Jehovah.
\v 13 The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, nor speak lies; neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth;
for they shall feed and lie down, and none shall make them afraid.
\p
\v 14 Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.
\v 15 Jehovah has taken away your judgments, he has cast out your enemy: the King of Israel, even Jehovah, is in the midst of
thee; you shall not fear evil any more.
\v 16 In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear you not; O Zion, let not your hands be slack.
\v 17 Jehovah your God is in the midst of you, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with joy; he will rest in
his love; he will joy over you with singing.
\v 18 I will gather them that sorrow for the solemn assembly, who were of thee;
to whom the burden upon her was a reproach.
\v 19 Behold, at that time I will deal with all them that afflict thee; and I will save that which is lame, and gather that
which was driven away; and I will make them a praise and a name, whose shame has been in all the earth.
\v 20 At that time will I bring you in, and at that time will I gather you; for I will make you a name and a praise among all
the peoples of the earth, when I bring back your captivity before your eyes, says Jehovah.