\c 1
\p
\v 1 Now the word of Jehovah came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
\v 2 Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it; for their wickedness is come up before me.
\v 3 But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshish from the presence of Jehovah; and he went down to Joppa, and found a ship going to
Tarshish: so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of Jehovah.
\p
\v 4 But Jehovah sent out a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship was like to be
broken.
\v 5 Then the mariners were afraid, and cried every man to his god; and they cast forth the wares that were in the ship into
the sea, to lighten it to them. But Jonah was gone down into the innermost parts of the ship; and he lay, and was fast
asleep.
\v 6 So the shipmaster came to him, and said to him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? arise, call upon your God, if so be that
God will think upon us, that we perish not.
\v 7 And they said every one to his fellow, Come, and let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us.
So they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah.
\v 8 Then said they to him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause this evil is upon us; what is your occupation? and whence
come thou? what is your country? and of what people are thou?
\v 9 And he said to them, I am a Hebrew; and I fear Jehovah, the God of heaven, who has made the sea and the dry land.
\v 10 Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said to him, What is this that you have done? For the men knew that he was
fleeing from the presence of Jehovah, because he had told them.
\p
\v 11 Then said they to him, What shall we do to thee, that the sea may be calm to us? for the sea grew more and more
tempestuous.
\v 12 And he said to them, Take me up, and cast me forth into the sea; so shall the sea be calm to you: for I know that for
my sake this great tempest is upon you.
\v 13 Nevertheless the men rowed hard to get them back to the land; but they could not: for the sea grew more and more
tempestuous against them.
\v 14 Wherefore they cried to Jehovah, and said, We beseech thee, O Jehovah, we beseech thee, let us not perish for this
man’s life, and lay not upon us innocent blood; for thou, O Jehovah, have done as it pleased thee.
\v 15 So they took up Jonah, and cast him forth into the sea; and the sea ceased from its raging.
\v 16 Then the men feared Jehovah exceedingly; and they offered a sacrifice to Jehovah, and made vows.
\p
\v 17 And Jehovah prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah; and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three
nights.