\c 6
\s1 The vision of four chariots
\p
\v 1 I looked up again, and I saw four chariots coming toward me. They were coming between two mountains that were made of bronze.
\v 2 The first chariot was pulled by red horses, the second chariot was pulled by black horses,
\v 3 the third chariot was pulled by white horses, and the fourth chariot was pulled by spotted gray horses. They were all very strong horses.
\v 4 I asked the angel who had been speaking to me, "Sir, what do those chariots mean?"
\p
\v 5 The angel replied, "They have come from standing in the presence of the Lord who controls the entire earth. They will go across the sky in four directions.
\v 6 The chariot pulled by black horses will go north, the one pulled by white horses will go west, the one pulled by spotted gray horses will go south."
\p
\v 7 When those powerful horses left, they were eager to go throughout the world. As they were leaving, the angel said to them, "Go throughout the world and see what is happening!" So that is what they did.
\p
\v 8 Then the angel called to me and said, "Look, the chariots that have gone north will do what the Spirit of Yahweh wants them to do in that nation."
\s1 A crown was given to Joshua
\p
\v 9 Then Yahweh gave me another message.
\v 10 He said, "Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah will be bringing some silver and gold from the people who were exiled in Babylon. As soon as they arrive, go to the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah.
\v 11 Take some of that silver and gold from them and make a crown. Then put it on the head of Jehozadak's son Joshua, the Supreme Priest.
\v 12 Tell him that I, the Almighty Commander of the armies of angels, say that the man who is called the Branch will come. He will leave the place where he is now, and he will supervise those who build my temple.
\v 13 He is the one who will tell those who will build my temple what to do. He will wear royal clothing and he will sit on his throne and rule. There will also be a priest sitting next to his throne, and the two of them will work together harmoniously.
\v 14 The crown must be kept in my temple to remind people of what Heldai, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Josiah did for them.
\v 15 People who are living far away will come and help to build my temple. When that happens, the people will know that I, the Almighty Commander of the armies of angels, have sent you to them. That will happen if they faithfully obey me, Yahweh, your God."
