\c 12
\s1 Jerusalem will be rescued
\p
\v 1 This is a message from Yahweh concerning Israel. Yahweh is the one who stretched out the sky, who created the earth, and who gave life to humans. This is what he says:
\v 2 "I will soon cause Jerusalem to be like  a cup full of very strong alcoholic drink, and the people of other nations who drink it will stagger around. And they will come and attack Jerusalem and the other towns in Judah.
\v 3 At that time, the armies of all the nations will gather to attack Jerusalem, but I will cause the leaders of Judah to be like  a very heavy rock, and all who try to lift it will be badly injured.
\v 4 At that time I will cause every one of their enemies' horses to panic, and their riders to become crazy. I [IDI] will protect the people of Judah, but I will cause all their enemies' horses to become blind.
\v 5 Then the leaders of Judah will say to themselves, 'The people in Jerusalem are strong because the Almighty Commander of the armies of angels is their God.'
\p
\v 6 At that time I will enable the leaders of Judah to be like  a burning torch that is put in a field of ripe grain. The leaders of Judah and their army will destroy the people of the surrounding nations in all directions. But the people of Jerusalem will remain safe.
\p
\v 7 And I, Yahweh, will protect the tents of the soldiers in other places in Judah before I rescue the people of Jerusalem, in order that the leaders of Jerusalem  will be honored more than the people in other places in Judah are honored.
\v 8 At that time, I will protect  of David will rule the people like I would, as though an angel sent from me, Yahweh, was their leader.
\v 9 At that time, I will prepare to destroy all the nations that attack Jerusalem."
\s1 Mourning for the one who will be stabbed
\p
\v 10 "I, Yahweh, will cause the descendants .
\v 11 At that time, many people in Jerusalem will be crying bitterly, like people cried when King Josiah was killed in the battle at Hadad-Rimmon on the Megiddo Plain.
\v 12 Many people in Judah will cry, each family by themselves: The male descendants of David by themselves, and their wives by themselves, the male descendants of David's son Nathan by themselves, and their wives by themselves,
\v 13 the male descendants  of Levi by themselves, and their wives by themselves, the male descendants of Levi's grandson Shimei by themselves, and their wives by themselves,
\v 14 and all the other members of the kings' clans and the priests' clans by themselves, and their wives by themselves."
