\c 10
\s Matthew 10:1-15
\sr Jesus selected twelve apostles and instructed them before sending them out to various places.
\p
\v 1 He toldus twelve disciples to come to him. Then he gave us the power to expel evil spirits that controlled people. He also enabledus to heal all people who had diseases or who were sick.
\v 2 Here is a list of us twelve disciples whom he called apostles (which means 'messengers'): Simon, to whom he gave the new name Peter; Andrew, Peter's younger brother; James, the son of Zebedee; John, the younger brother of James;
\v 3 Philip; Bartholomew; Thomas; me, Matthew, the tax collector; James, the son of Alpheus; Thaddeus;
\v 4 Simon, a member of the party that wanted to overthrow the Roman government; and Judas Iscariot, who later enabled the Jewish leaders to seize Jesus.
\p
\v 5 When Jesus was about to send us twelve apostles to tell his message to people in various places, he gaveus these instructions: "Do not go where the non-Jews live  or into the towns where the Samaritans live, because they hate you.
\v 6 Instead, go to the people of Israel  have gone away from their shepherd.
\v 7 When you go to them, proclaim to them that God [EUP] will soon begin to rule over people.
\v 8 Heal sick people, cause dead people to become alive, heal people who have leprosy, and cause demons to leave people who are controlled by them . Do not charge money for helping people, because God did not charge you anything for helping you.
\v 9-10 Do not take any money with you , nor a knapsack. Do not take an extra shirt, nor sandals in addition to what you are wearing, nor a walking stick. Every worker deserves to get pay from the people for whom he works, so you deserve to receive food and a place to stay from the people to whom you go.
\v 11-12 In whatever town or village you enter, find out which person is worthy that you should stay in his home. And as you go into that house, ask God to bless the people who live there . Stay in that home until you leave that town or village.
\v 13 If the people who live in , God will bless you instead of blessing them.
\v 14 If the people who live in any house or town do not welcome you to their home or town, nor listen to your message, leave that house or town. And as you leave, shake off the dust from your feet. By doing that, you will warn them that God will punish them for rejecting your message.
\v 15 Note this carefully: At the time when God judges all people, he will punish the people who lived in Sodom and Gomorrah  refused to hear your message, God will punish them very severely."
\s Matthew 10:16-25
\sr Jesus instructed his disciples to be wary of their religious leaders and to endure when they are persecuted by people who refuse to accept the new message.
\p
\v 16 "Take note: After I send you out, you will be as defenseless as sheep .
\v 17 Also, be on guard against our religious leaders. They will arrest you and take you to the members of the religious councils to put you on trial and punish you because you are my disciples. You will be whipped  in their meeting places.
\v 18 And because you teach about me, you will be taken  to governors and kings in order that they may put you on trial and punish you. As a result, you will testify to those rulers and to other non-Jewsabout what I have done.
\v 19 When the religious leaders arrest you, do not be worried about what you will say to them, because at that very time the Holy Spirit will tell you the words that you should say.
\v 20 It is not that you will decide what to say. Instead, you will say what the Spirit of your heavenly Father tells you to say.
\v 21 You will be taken  to the authorities to be killedbecause you believe in me. For example, people will do that to their brothers, and fathers will do that to their children. Children will rebel against their parents and causethem to be killed.
\v 22 Many people will hate you because you believe in me. Nevertheless, many people will keep on believing in me until they die . They are the people whom God will take to live with him.
\v 23 When people in one town cause you to suffer, escape to another town and tell the people there about me. Note this: I, the one who came down from heaven, will certainly return to earth before you have finished going from one town to another town throughout Israel and telling people about me.
\p
\v 24 A disciple should not expect to be greater than his teacher, and servants are not superior to their master.
\v 25 You do not expect that people will treat a disciple better than they treat his teacher, or thatthey will treat a servant better than they treat his master. Similarly, because I am your teacher and master, you can expect that people will mistreat you, because they have mistreated me. The most you can expect is that people will treat you like they treat me. I am like the ruler of a household !"
\s Matthew 10:26-33
\sr Jesus instructed his disciples that they should not fear those who persecute them.
\p
\v 26 "Do not be afraid of people who insult you and do evil things to you. God wants everything that is unknown now to be revealed .
\v 27 So, instead of being afraid, what I say to you secretly as people do at night .
\v 28 Do not be afraid of people who are able to kill your body  but are not able to destroy your soul. Instead, fear God because he is able to destroy both a person's body and a person's soul in hell.
\v 29 Think about the sparrows. They have so little value that you can buy two of them for only one small coin , God, your heavenly Father, knows it, because he knows everything.
\v 30 He knows everything about you, too. He even knows how many hairs you have on your head!
\v 31 God values you much more than he values sparrows . So, do not be afraid of people who threaten to kill you!
\v 32 If people, without being afraid, are willing to tell others that they are my disciples, I will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven that they are my disciples.
\v 33 But if they are afraid to say in front of others that they are mydisciples, I will tell my Father, who is in heaven, that they are not my disciples."
\s Matthew 10:34-39
\sr Jesus instructed his disciples that they should be willing to suffer because of their faith in him.
\p
\v 34 "Do not think that I came to earth to cause people to live together harmoniously. The result of my coming is that some of those who follow me  will be killed.
\v 35 Because I came to earth, people who do not believe in me will oppose those who do believe in me. For example, some sons will oppose their fathers, some daughters will oppose their mothers, and some daughters-in-law will oppose their mothers-in-law.
\v 36 This shows that sometimes a person's enemies will be members of his own household.
\v 37 People who love their fathers or mothers more than they love me are not worthy to have a relationship with me. And people who love their sons or daughters more than they love me are not worthy to belong to me.
\v 38 People who are ready to execute a prisoner force him to carry a cross to the place where they will nail him to it . Those who are not willing to allow other people to hurt and disgrace them like that because of being my disciples are not worthy to belong to me.
\v 39 People who deny that they believe in me in order to escape being killed will not live with God eternally ."
\s Matthew 10:40-42
\sr Jesus instructed his apostles about the people whom God rewards, and then he sent them to various towns.
\p
\v 40 "God considers that everyone who welcomes you, welcomes me .
\v 41 Those who welcome someone because  they know that person is righteous they will receive the reward righteous people receive from God.
\v 42 Note this: Suppose people see that you are thirsty 
