\c 17
\s Matthew 17:1-8
\sr Jesus' appearance changed while Moses and Elijah talked with him on a mountain.
\p
\v 1 A week after Jesussaid that, he took Peter, James, and John, the younger brother of James, and led them up a high mountain where they were away from other people.
\v 2 While they were there, the three disciples saw that Jesus' appearance was changed. His face shone like the sun, and his clothing shone and became as brilliant as light.
\v 3 Suddenly Moses and Elijah, who were important prophets many years ago, appeared and started talking with him.
\v 4 Peter saw them and said to Jesus, "Lord, it is wonderful for us to be here! If you want me to, I will make three shelters, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah."
\v 5 While Peter was speaking, a bright cloud appeared and covered them. They heard God speaking about Jesus from inside the cloud. He said to them, "This is my Son. I love him. He pleases me very much. So you must listen to him!"
\v 6 When the three disciples heard God speaking, they were exceedingly afraid. As a result, they fell prostrate on the ground.
\v 7 But Jesus went to them and touched them and said to them, "Stand up! Do not be afraid anymore!"
\v 8 And when they looked up , they saw that Jesus was the only one who was still there.
\s Matthew 17:9-13
\sr Jesus explained that John the Baptizer fulfilled the prophecy about Elijah returning.
\p
\v 9 When they were walking down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, "Do not tell anyone what you saw on the mountain top until God has caused me, the one who has come from heaven, to become alive again after I die."
\v 10 Those three disciples had just seen Elijah and he did not do anything to prepare people for the coming of the Messiah, so they asked Jesus, "If what you say is true, why do the men who teach the Jewish laws say that it is necessary for Elijah to come back to earth before the Messiah comes?"
\v 11 Jesus answered them, "It is true that God promised that Elijah would come to prepare many  people for the Messiah's coming.
\v 12 But note this: Elijah's representative has already come and our leaders have seen him, but they did not recognize him as the one who would come before the Messiah. Instead, they treated him badly, just like they desired. And those same rulers will soon treat me, the one who came from heaven, in the same manner."
\v 13 Then the three disciples understood that when he was talking about Elijah, he was referring to John the Baptizer.
\s Matthew 17:14-21
\sr Jesus healed an epileptic boy, and he rebuked his disciples for not having enough faith to do miracles.
\p
\v 14 When Jesus and the three disciples returned to the rest of us disciples and to the crowd that had gathered, a man approached Jesus and knelt before him.
\v 15 He said to him, "Sir, have mercy on my son and heal him! He has epilepsy and suffers very much. Because of this illness, he has fallen in the fire and in the water many times.
\v 16 I brought him to your disciples in order that they might heal him, but they were not able to heal him."
\v 17 Jesus responded by saying to everyone who had gathered there, "You who have seen how I help people do not believe that you can do anything! Your minds are distorted. How long do I have to be with you before you are able to do what I do ? Bring the boy here to me!"
\v 18 When they brought the boy to Jesus, Jesus rebuked the demon that was causing the epilepsy. As a result, the demon came out of the boy, and the boy was healed from that time onward.
\v 19 Later, some of us disciples approached Jesus. We asked him privately, "Why were \bd we\bd* not able to expel the demon?"
\v 20-21 He answered us, "It is because you did not believe very much in God's power. Think about this: Mustard seeds are very small, but in this area they grow and produce large ! Youcould even say to this hill, 'Move from here to there!' and it would go where you told it to go."
\s Matthew 17:22-23
\sr Jesus again predicted his death and resurrection.
\p
\v 22 When we disciples had gathered together in Galilee district, Jesus said to us, "I, the one who came from heaven, will soon be handed over .
\v 23 They will kill me. But God will cause me to become alive again on the third day after I am killed." When we heard that, we became very sad.
\s Matthew 17:24-27
\sr Jesus arranged for a miracle so that Peter could pay the Temple tax.
\p
\v 24 When we came to Capernaum city, the men who collect taxes for the Temple approached Peter and said to him, "Your teacher pays the Temple tax, does he not?"
\v 25 He answered them, "Yes, he does pay it." When we came into Jesus' house, before Peter began to talk about paying taxes, Jesus said to him, "Simon, from whom do you think rulers collect revenue or taxes? Do they collect taxes from the citizens of their own country, or from citizens of countries they have conquered?"
\v 26 Peter answered him, "From citizens of other countries." Then Jesus said to him, "So citizens of their own country do not need to pay taxes.
\v 27 Buteven though the Temple is mine, pay the tax for us so that the Temple tax collectors will not become angry with us. In order to get the money to pay it, go to the lake. Cast your fish line and hook, and take the first fish that you catch. When you open its mouth, you will find a silver coin that is worth enough to pay the tax for you and me. Take that coin and give it to the Temple tax collectors."
