\c 20
\s Matthew 20:1-16
\sr Jesus told a parable to illustrate how God will reward those who serve him.
\p
\v 1 "In order to illustrate how God rewards people, I will compare the way God [MTY] rules his people with what the owner of an estate did. Early in the morning the ruler of the estate went to where people who wanted work gathered. He went there to hire laborers to work in his vineyard.
\v 2 He promised the men whom he hired that he would pay them the standard wage for working one day. Then he sent them to his vineyards.
\v 3 At nine o'clock that same morning he went back to the market. There he saw more men who did not have work.
\v 4 He said to them, 'Go to my vineyard as other men have done, and work there. I will pay you whatever is a just wage.' So they also went to his vineyard and began to work.
\v 5 At noon and at three o'clock he again went to the market and found other laborers whom he promised to pay a fair wage.
\v 6 At five o'clock he went to the market again and saw other men standing there who were not working. He said to them, 'Why are you standing here all day and not working?'
\v 7 They said to him, 'Because no one has hired us.' He said to them, 'I will hire you. Go to my vineyard as other men have done, and work there.' So they went.
\p
\v 8 When evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his manager, 'Tell the men to come so that you can give them their wages. First, pay the men who started working last, and pay the men last who started working first.'
\v 9 The manager paid that standard wage to each of the men who did not start working until five o'clock in the afternoon.
\v 10 When the men who had begun working early in the morning went to get their wages, they thought that they would receive more than the standard wage. But they also received only the standard wage.
\v 11 So they complained to the owner of the vineyard because they thought their payment was unfair.
\v 12 They said to him, 'You are not being fair! The men who started working after all of the rest of us started worked for only one hour! You havepaid them the same wage as you paid us! But we worked hardall day , including working in the hottest part of the day!'
\v 13 The owner of the vineyard said to one of those who complained, 'Friend, I did not treat you unfairly. You agreed with me to work the whole day for the standard wage .
\v 14 Stop complaining to me! Take your wage and go! I desire to give the same wage that I gave you to the men who began working after all of you had begun working.
\v 15 I certainly have a right to spend my money as I desire '"
\v 16 Then Jesus said to us, "Similarly, God will reward well some people who seem to be less important now, and he will not reward some people who seem to be more important now."
\s Matthew 20:17-19
\sr For the third time Jesus predicted his death and resurrection.
\p
\v 17 When Jesus was walking on the road up to Jerusalem, along with us twelve disciples, he took us to a place by ourselves in order that he could talk to us privately. Then he said to us,
\v 18 "Listen carefully! We are now going up to Jerusalem. While we are there, someone will enable the chief priests and the men who teach the Jewish laws to seize me, the one who came from heaven, and they will put me on trial. They will condemn me and say that I should be killed .
\v 19 Then they will put me in the hands of non-Jews so that they can make fun of me, whip me, and kill me by nailing me to a cross. But on the third day after that, God will cause me to live again."
\s Matthew 20:20-28
\sr Jesus taught that greatness in God's sight means humbly serving others as Jesus did.
\p
\v 20 Then the mother of James and John brought her two sons to Jesus. She bowed down before Jesus and asked him to do her a favor.
\v 21 Jesus said to her, "What do you want me to do for you?" She said to him, "Permit these two sons of mine to sit next to you  when you become king."
\v 22 Jesus said to her and her sons, "You do not understand what you are asking for. Can you suffer like I am about to suffer ?" James and John answered him, "Yes, we are able to do that."
\v 23 Then Jesus said to them, "Yes, you will suffer as I will suffer  to the ones whom he appoints."
\p
\v 24 When we ten other disciples heard what James and John had requested, we became angry with them because we also wanted to rule with Jesus in the highest positions.
\v 25 So Jesus called all of us together and said to us, "You know that those who rule the non-Jews enjoy showing them that they are powerful. Their chief rulers enjoy commanding the people under them.
\v 26 You should not be like them. On the contrary, everyone among you who wants God to consider him great must becomelike a servant for the rest of you.
\v 27 And everyone among you who wants God to consider him to be the most important must becomelike a slave for the rest of you.
\v 28 You should imitate me. Even though I am the one who came from heaven, I did not come to be served 
\s Matthew 20:29-34
\sr Jesus healed two blind men.
\p
\v 29 As we were leaving Jericho city, a large crowd of people followed us.
\v 30 As we walked along, we saw two blind men sitting alongside the road. When they heard that Jesus was passing by, they yelled to him, "Lord, Descendant of King David, you are the Messiah! Take pity on us!"
\v 31 People in the crowd scolded them and told them to be quiet. But the blind men yelled even louder, "Lord, Descendant of King David, you are the Messiah! Have pity on us!"
\v 32 Jesus stopped and called them to come to him. Then he said to them, "What do you want me to do for you?"
\v 33 They said to him, "Lord, heal our eyes  so that we can see!"
\v 34 Jesus felt sorry for them and touched their eyes. Immediately they were able to see, and they went with Jesus.
