====== Creating Accurate Translations ======

To be ACCURATE when translating the Bible means to: Discover the meaning of a passage. Read each paragraph in a few different translations before you translate it. Identify the theme of a paragraph (the theme is the main idea), and then write your translation accurately and naturally with the author’s original focus in mind. Here are some steps to follow:

One of the first things to do in the translation process is to discover the meaning of the passage. Do this by reading each paragraph a few times, using several different Bible versions, if you have them.

There are two versions of the Bible available in the Translation Studio APP. The Unfolding Word Dynamic Bible and the Unfolding Word Literal Bible. Here is an example of how these versions are different.

Verses 8 and 9 of Luke 10 in the unfolding word dynamic Bible say:

“Whenever you enter a town and the people there welcome you, eat whatever food they provide for you. Heal the people there who are sick. Tell them, 'The kingdom of God is right here near you.‘”

Those same verse in the Unfolding word literal Bible say:

“Whatever city you enter, and they receive you, eat what is set before you, and heal the sick that are there. Say to them, 'The kingdom of God has come near to you.‘”

Read these paragraphs several times to discover the meaning.

Do you notice the differences?

Here are some of the differences between the unfolding word dynamic Bible and the unfolding word literal Bible: “Town” instead of “city”; “welcome you” instead of “receive you”, “food they provide” instead of “what is set before you”; and “right here near you” instead of ”come near to you.”

Did you discover the meaning is the same? In both versions Jesus is giving specific instructions.

After discovering the meaning of the passage, you should identify the writer’s main idea for each paragraph.

Ask yourself, “Why is the author writing this, and how does he feel about these things?

Let us look at the Luke 10 passage again. Why do you think the author is writing this? What do you think the author feels about what he wrote?

Perhaps the author felt it was important for the reader to know the instructions that Jesus gave … or he wanted us to know that the people that Jesus sent had the power to heal. Maybe he wanted us to know that the Kingdom of God is near.

What do you think? After you have read the passage several times, answer these questions: Who is the author writing to? When and where did these things take place? Who is involved in this section and what has happened?

Here are the questions and answers for Luke 10 verses 8 and 9: Who is he writing to and why is he writing? Answer: Luke is writing to Theophilus and to any who will read his book, to tell people what Jesus said and did.

When and where did these things take place? These verses are in the middle of the entire account. To answer this question, you would need to remember what happened earlier. Earlier Luke writes that Jesus and the disciples are on the way to Jerusalem and chapter 10 starts with Jesus sending out 72 people to preach.

Who is involved in this section and what has happened? In this section, Jesus continues to give instructions to the 72 people whom he sent out. The ‘who is involved’ is Jesus and the 72 people he sent out. The ‘what has happened’ is Jesus gave instructions.

Part of discovering the meaning of the source text is to think of the original audience and what message the writer wanted to give them.

Do you think the author had specific things for the reader to know? Remember what we thought the author’s main ideas were? The main ideas were: The instructions that Jesus gave, that the 72 people whom Jesus sent out would have power to heal sick people, and that they would tell others that the kingdom of God was near.

This is the message to the original audience. Allow a similar message to come clearly into your mind in the target language.

Look at the passage and think how you would retell it in your own language.

Remember to keep the same meaning of the source language in the target language. Keep this initial translation by writing it down. Use an alphabet that suits your language. The goal of accurate translations is to translate the meaning of the original message clearly, accurately and naturally, keeping the author’s main focus in mind.

Remember: Translation is re-telling, as exactly as possible, the meaning of the original source in a way that is natural in the target language.

Be sure to view the other lessons on Translation Guidelines.

**Culture, Text and Meaning** - Whenever you translate the scriptures you should be aware of how the culture during the time that the text was written affects the meaning of the text. This seven minute video will explain how God spoke to many different cultures. The video talks about the different cultures in the Bible, how culture and language shaped each portion of the Bible, and that God wants to communicate a specific meaning in the Bible, which is his Word. Watch the video for the [[http://youtu.be/9nLRLAgOIpw|computer]] or the [[http://youtu.be/girNfacETDE|portable device]].

{{tag>review}}

~~NOCACHE~~
