\c 13
\s Luke 13:1-5
\sr Jesus warned the people that God would punish them if they did not turn from their sinful lives.
\p
\v 1 Some people who were listening to Jesus at that time told him about some people from Galilee district who had gone to Jerusalem. Pilate, the Roman governor, had ordered soldiers to kill them  while they were offering sacrifices in the Temple there.
\v 2 Jesus replied to them, "Do you think that this happened to those people from Galilee because they were more sinful than all the other people from Galilee?
\v 3 I assure you, that was notso! But instead of being concerned about them, you need to remember that God will similarly punish you eternally if you do not turn from your sinful behavior.
\v 4 Or, consider the eighteen people who died when the tower at Siloam outside Jerusalem fell on them. Do you think that this happened to them because they were more sinful than all the other people who lived in Jerusalem?
\v 5 I assure you, that was not so! But instead, you need to realize that God will similarly punish you eternally if you do not turn from your sinful behavior!"
\s Luke 13:6-9
\sr Jesus warned that he would punish the Jews for not showing that they appreciated God's blessings.
\p
\v 6 Then Jesus told them this illustration to show how God would treat the Jews, whom he continually blessed, but who did not do things that please him: "A man planted a fig tree on his farmland. Each year he came to it looking for figs, but there were no figs.
\v 7 Then he said to the gardener, 'Look here! I have been looking for fruit on this fig tree every year for the past three years, but there have been no figs. Cut it down! It is just using up the nutrients in the soil for nothing!'
\v 8 But the man replied to the owner, 'Sir, leave it here for another year. I will dig around it and put manure around it.
\v 9 If it bears fruit next year, we can cut it down.'"
\s Luke 13:10-17
\sr Jesus told a synagogue leader that he was being hypocritical regarding working on the Sabbath.
\p
\v 10 One Sabbath, Jesus was teaching people in one of the Jewish meeting places.
\v 11 There was a woman there whom an evil spirit  had crippled for eighteen years. She was always bent over; she could not stand up straight.
\v 12 When Jesus saw her, he called her over to him. He said to her, "Woman, I am freeing you from your illness!"
\v 13 He put his hands on her. Immediately she stood up straight, and she praised God!
\v 14 But the man in charge of the synagogue and be healed. Do not come on our Jewish day of rest!"
\v 15 Then the Lord replied to him, "You That is work, too!
\v 16 This woman is more important than an animal; she is a Jew, descended from Abraham! But Satan has kept her "
\v 17 After he said that, all the people there who opposed him were ashamed. But all the other people there were happy about all the wonderful things he was doing.
\s Luke 13:18-21 (Mt. 13:31-33; Mk. 4:30-32)
\sr Jesus gave two illustrations about God's rule over people's lives.
\p
\v 18 Then he said, "I will tell you how the number of people who let God rule  I will tell you what I can compare it to.
\v 19 It is like a tiny mustard seed that a man planted in his field. It grew until it became big, like a tree. It was so big that birds built nests in its branches."
\p
\v 20 Then he said, "I will tell  their lives can influence their society more and more.
\v 21 It is like a little bit of yeast that a woman mixed with about fifty pounds of flour. That small amount of yeast made the whole batch of dough swell up."
\s Luke 13:22-30 (Mt. 7:13-14, 21-23)
\sr Jesus warns that not all people who think that they will go to heaven will go there.
\p
\v 22 Jesus continued traveling, along with the disciples, through various towns and villages on the way to Jerusalem. As they went, he was teaching the people.
\v 23 Someone asked him, "Lord, will there be only a few people who are saved  is like a narrow door.
\v 24 Therefore, try hard to enter that narrow doorway, because I tell you that many people will try to enter heaven by some other way, but they will not be able to get in.
\v 25 God is like the owner of a house. Some day he will lock the door. Then some of you will begin to stand outside the door and knock. You will say, 'Lord, open the door for us!' But he will reply, 'No, I will not open it, because I do not know you, and I do not know where you are from!'
\v 26 Then you will say, 'You must have forgotten that, and you taught people in the streets of our towns!'
\v 27 But he will say, 'I tell you again, I do not know you, and I do not know where you are from. You are wicked people! Get away from here!'"
\v 28 Then Jesus continued by saying, "From where God will send you, you will see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the distance. All the prophets who lived long ago will also be there, in the kingdom where God is ruling. But you will be outside, crying and grinding your teeth because you will have severe pain!
\v 29 Furthermore, many non-Jewish people will be inside. There will be ones who have come from lands to the north, east, south, and west. They will be feasting in that place where God is ruling.
\v 30 Think about this: Some people whom others do not consider important now, God will make them very important then, and some people whom others consider very important now, God will make to be not important then."
\s Luke 13:31-35 (Mt. 23:37-39)
\sr Jesus stated that it was necessary for him as a prophet to die in Jerusalem.
\p
\v 31 At that very time, some Pharisees came and said to Jesus, "Leave this area, because the ruler Herod Antipas wants to kill you!"
\v 32 He replied to them, "Herod is  as cruel as a fox, but also as insignificant as a fox. So I do not worry about him. But to show him that no one can harm me until it is the time and place God has determined, go tell him this message from me: 'Listen! I am expelling demons and performing miracles today, and I will continue doing it for a short time. After that, I will finish my work.
\v 33 But I must continue my trip to Jerusalem during the coming days, because they killed many other prophets there, and since I am also a prophet, no other place is appropriate for people to kill me.'"
\p
\v 34 Then Jesus said, "O people of  like a hen gathers her young chicks under her wings. But you did not want me to do that.
\v 35 So listen to this: Your city !'"
