\c 17
\s Luke 17:1-4
\sr Jesus warned about God punishing those who cause others to sin.
\p
\v 1 One day Jesus said to his disciples, "Things that will tempt people to sin are certain to happen, but it will be terrible for anyone who causes them to happen!
\v 2 Suppose you caused one of these people who do not believe in me very strongly to sin. If a huge stone was fastened  into the sea, you would consider that a severe punishment, but God will punish you even more severely if you cause someone to sin!
\v 3 Be careful how you act. If you know about a fellow believer who sins, you should rebuke him. If he says that he is sorry for having sinned and asks you to forgive him, forgive him.
\v 4 Even if he sins against you seven times in one day, if he comes to you each time and says, 'I am sorry for what I did', you must continue forgiving him."
\s Luke 17:5-6
\sr Jesus taught them what big things they could accomplish if they had true faith.
\p
\v 5 One day the apostles said to the Lord, "Help us to trust in you (OR, in God) more strongly!"
\v 6 The Lord replied, "Mustard seeds are very small, but in this area they grow and produce large  plants. Similarly, if your faith grows until you truly believe that God will do what you ask him to, you will be able to do anything. You could even say to this mulberry tree, 'Pull yourself out with your roots and plant yourself in the sea!' and it would obey you!"
\s Luke 17:7-10
\sr Jesus taught that we should serve God faithfully without expecting to be thanked.
\p
\v 7 Jesus also said, "Suppose that one of you had a servant who was plowing your fields or taking care of your sheep. After he comes into the house from the field, you, 'Sit down and eat immediately!'
\v 8 Instead, you would say to him, 'Put on your apron and prepare a meal for me! Then serve it to me so that I can eat and drink it! Afterwards you can eat and drink.'
\v 9 You will not thank your servant for doing the work that he had been told 
\v 10 Similarly, when you. We are only God's servants. We have only done the things that he told us to do.'"
\s Luke 17:11-19
\sr Jesus healed ten lepers, but only a non-Jewish one thanked him.
\p
\v 11 As Jesus and his disciples were walking along the road to Jerusalem, they were going through the region between Samaria and Galilee districts.
\v 12 As they entered one village, ten lepers came near the road. Because lepers were not permitted to come near other people, they stood at some distance
\v 13 and called out, "Jesus, Master, pity us and heal us!"
\v 14 When he saw them, he said to them, "Each of you should go and show yourself to a priest in Jerusalem so that he can see if you are healed." As they were going there, they were healed.
\v 15 Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God loudly.
\v 16 He came to Jesus, prostrated himself at Jesus' feet, and thanked him. This man was a Samaritan, not a Jew.
\v 17 Then Jesus said, "I healed ten lepers! I am disappointed that the other nine did not come back!
\v 18 I am disappointed  that this non-Jewish man was the only one who returned to thank God; none of the others came back to me!"
\v 19 Then he said to the man, "Get up and continue on your journey. God  because you trusted in me."
\s Luke 17:20-21
\sr Jesus taught that God's rule is within our lives.
\p
\v 20 One day Jesus was asked by some Pharisees  is not something people will be able to see with their eyes.
\v 21 And people will not be able to say, 'Look! He is ruling here!' Or 'He is ruling there!' because, contrary to what you think, God's ruling is within people's inner beings ."
\s Luke 17:22-37
\sr Jesus told his disciples that without warning he would return and judge people.
\p
\v 22 Jesus said to his disciples, "There will be a time when you will want to see me , the one who came from heaven, ruling powerfully. But you will not see that.
\v 23 Some people will say to you, 'Look, the Messiah is over there!' or they will say 'Look, he is here!' When they say that, do not believe them. Do not follow them to go see the Messiah.
\v 24 Because when the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, everyone can see it. Similarly  when I, the one who came from heaven, come back again, everyone will see me.
\v 25 But before that happens, I must suffer in many ways , even though they have observed me doing good for people.
\v 26 But when I, the one who came from heaven, come again, people will be doing things just like people were doing at the time when  Noah lived.
\v 27 At that time people ate and drank as usual, and they got married as usual, up until the day when Noah and his family entered the big boat. But then the flood came and destroyed all those who were not in the boat.
\v 28 Similarly, when Lot lived in Sodom city, people there ate and drank as usual. They bought things and they sold things. They planted crops and they built houses as usual.
\v 29 But on the day that Lot and his family left Sodom, fire and burning sulfur came down from the sky and destroyed all those who stayed in the city.
\v 30 Similarly, when I, the one who came from heaven, return to earth people will be unprepared 
\v 31 On that day, those who are outside their houses, with all the things that they own inside the houses, must not go inside to take them away, because there will not be enough time to do that. Similarly, those who are working in a field must not turn back to get anything; they must flee quickly.
\v 32 Remember Lot's wife! Because she turned back and wanted to get some of her things from Sodom, she died immediately and became a pillar of salt.
\v 33 Anyone who wants to hold onto his life and his possessions will not receive eternal life. But anyone who is willing to die for my sake will live eternally.
\v 34 I tell you this: On the night when I return, there will be two people sleeping in one bed. The one who believes in me will be taken .
\v 35-36 Two women will be grinding grain together; one will be taken and the other left  behind."
\v 37 His disciples said to him, "Lord, where will this happen?" He replied to them, "Wherever there is an animal carcass, the vultures will gather to eat it . Similarly, wherever there are people who are spiritually dead, God will punish them."
