\c 21
\s Luke 21:1-4
\sr Jesus taught that God commends people who give to him sacrificially.
\p
\v 1 Jesus looked up from where he was sitting and saw rich people putting their gifts into the offering boxes in the Temple courtyard.
\v 2 He also saw a poor widow putting in two small copper coins.
\v 3-4 He said to his disciples, "The truth is that these rich people have a lot of money, but they gave only a small part of it. But this woman, who is very poor, has put in all the money that she had to pay for the things she needs! So God considers that  this poor widow has put more money into the box than all the others."
\s Luke 21:5-19
\sr Jesus warned them about the terrible things that will happen before he returns.
\p
\v 5 Some of Jesus' disciples talked about the Temple. They commented about the beautiful stones used in building the Temple and the other decorations that people had given, decorations that were on the walls. But he said,
\v 6 "I want to tell you something about these things that you are looking at. They will be destroyed  on top of another."
\p
\v 7 Later they asked him, "Teacher, when will that happen? What will happen to indicate that the things you just told us are about to happen?"
\v 8 He said, "All that I will say is, be sure that you are not deceived . They will say, 'I am the Messiah!' They will also say 'It is now the time when God will begin to rule!' Do not follow them to become their disciples!
\v 9 Also, whenever you hear about wars and riots, do not be terrified. Keep in mind thatGod has said that those things must happen. But when they happen, it will not mean that the world will end right away!"
\p
\v 10 Then he said to them, "Groups in various countries will fight each other, and various governments will also fight against each other.
\v 11 There will be big earthquakes, and in various places there will be famines and plagues. People will see things that will terrify them. There will also be unusual things happening in the sky.
\v 12 But before all these things happen, some of you will be persecuted and arrested  disciples.
\v 13 That will be a time for you to tell them about me.
\v 14 So determine within yourselves not to be thinking before that happens what you will say to defend yourselves,
\v 15 because I will make you wise .
\v 16 And there will also be other evil things that will happen: Even your parents and brothers and other relatives and friends who do not believe in me will betray you. They will kill some of you.
\v 17 In general, most people will .
\v 18 But your souls will be absolutely safe .
\v 19 By enduring all these things people will do to you, you will preserve your eternal life ."
\s Luke 21:20-24
\sr Jesus predicted that Jerusalem would be destroyed.
\p
\v 20 "But when you see that Jerusalem has been surrounded by the armies of your enemies, you will know that it is the time for this city to be completely destroyed .
\v 21 At that time those of you who are in Judea district must flee to the higher hills. Those who are in this city must leave quickly. Those who are in the nearby countryside must not go back into the city to get any of their possessions before they flee.
\v 22 You must obey what I tell you because, in order that all the things that are writtenin the Scriptures will be fulfilled, God will very severely punish the people who stay in this city.
\v 23 I feel very sorry for women in this city who will be pregnant, and women who will be nursing their babies in those days, because it will be very difficult for them to run away! I feel sorry because the people in this land will suffer greatly  when God punishes them.
\v 24 Many of them will be killed  other countries. Non-Jewish people will trample over Jerusalem until the time that God has determined for them to rule the city is ended."
\s Luke 21:25-28
\sr Jesus told them about the frightening things that will happen before he returns.
\p
\v 25 "There will also be strange things that will happen to the sun, the moon, and the stars. In many nations on the earth, people will be very frightened, and they will be anxious when they hear the ocean roaring and see the huge waves.
\v 26 People will faint because they will be afraid as they wait for what will happen in the world. They will be afraid because the powerful objects in the sky will be shaken .
\v 27 Then they will see me, the one who came from heaven, coming in a cloud powerfully and very gloriously.
\v 28 So when these things that I have just now described begin to happen, stand up straight and be brave, because it will be close to the time when God will free you from all suffering."
\s Luke 21:29-33
\sr Jesus taught them how to know when his return was near.
\p
\v 29 Then he told them this parable: "Think about the fig tree, and all the other trees.
\v 30 As soon as you see their leaves beginning to sprout, you know that summer is near.
\v 31 Similarly, when you see these things that I have just described happening, you will know that it is almost time for God to truly rule as king.
\v 32 Keep this in mind: All the things that I have just now described will happen before all the people who have observed the things that I have done have died.
\v 33 You can be certain that these things that I have told you about will happen. That they will happen is morecertain than that the earth and sky will continue to exist."
\s Luke 21:34-38
\sr Jesus taught them how to be ready for his return.
\p
\v 34 "But be on guard. Do not be getting drunk with carousing or let yourselves be distracted by worries concerning your lives , like a trap suddenly catches an animal in it.
\v 35 You need to know that my return will surprise everyone all over the earth.
\v 36 So be ready at all times. Pray that you will be able to endure without being afraid of all these difficult things that will happen, so that you will then stand confidently before me, the one who came from heaven."
\p
\v 37 Each day during that week Jesus taught the people in the Temple courtyard in Jerusalem. But at night he and his disciples left the city and stayed on Olive Tree Hill.
\v 38 Early each morning many people came to the Temple courtyard to listen to him.
