\c 11
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, as he was praying in a certain place, that when he ceased, one of his disciples said to him, Lord,
teach us to pray, even as John also taught his disciples.
\v 2 And he said to them, When you pray, say, Father, Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come.
\v 3 Give us day by day our daily bread.
\v 4 And forgive us our sins; for we ourselves also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And bring us not into temptation.
\p
\v 5 And he said to them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go to him at midnight, and say to him, Friend, lend
me three loaves;
\v 6 for a friend of mine is come to me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him;
\v 7 and he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I
cannot rise and give thee?
\v 8 I say to you, Though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will
arise and give him as many as he needeth.
\v 9 And I say to you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and you shall find; knock, and it shall be opened to you.
\v 10 For every one that asks receiveth; and he that seeks findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
\v 11 And of which of you that is a father shall his son ask a loaf, and he give him a stone? or a fish, and he for a fish give
him a serpent?
\v 12 Or if he shall ask an egg, will he give him a scorpion?
\v 13 If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall
your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?
\p
\v 14 And he was casting out a demon that was dumb. And it came to pass, when the demon was gone out, the dumb man
spake; and the multitudes marvelled.
\v 15 But some of them said, By Beelzebub the prince of the demons throws he out demons.
\v 16 And others, trying him, sought of him a sign from heaven.
\v 17 But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a
house divided against a house falleth.
\v 18 And if Satan also is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because you say that I cast out demons by
Beelzebub.
\v 19 And if I by Beelzebub cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges.
\v 20 But if I by the finger of God cast out demons, then is the kingdom of God come upon you.
\v 21 When the strong man fully armed guardeth his own court, his goods are in peace:
\v 22 but when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he takes from him his whole armor wherein he trusted,
and divideth his spoils.
\v 23 He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathers not with me scattereth.
\v 24 The unclean spirit when he is gone out of the man, passes through waterless places, seeking rest, and finding none, he
saith, I will turn back to my house whence I came out.
\v 25 And when he is come, he finds it swept and garnished.
\v 26 Then goes he, and takes to him seven other spirits more evil than himself; and they enter in and dwell there:
and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first.
\p
\v 27 And it came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said to
him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the breasts which you did suck.
\v 28 But he said, Yes rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it.
\p
\v 29 And when the multitudes were gathering together to him, he began to say, This generation is an evil generation: it
seeks after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it but the sign of Jonah.
\v 30 For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be to this generation.
\v 31 The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and shall condemn them: for she
came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
\v 32 The men of Nineveh shall stand up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the
preaching of Jonah; and behold, a greater than Jonah is here.
\p
\v 33 No man, when he has lighted a lamp, puts it in a cellar, neither under the bushel, but on the stand, that they which
enter in may see the light.
\v 34 The lamp of your body is your eye: when your eye is single, your whole body also is full of light; but when it is evil,
your body also is full of darkness.
\v 35 Look therefore whether the light that is in you be not darkness.
\v 36 If therefore your whole body be full of light, having no part dark, it shall be wholly full of light, as when the lamp
with its bright shining does give you light.
\p
\v 37 Now as he spake, a Pharisee asks him to dine with him: and he went in, and sat down to meat.
\v 38 And when the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that he had not first bathed himself before dinner.
\v 39 And the Lord said to him, Now you the Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter; but your inward part
is full of extortion and wickedness.
\v 40 You foolish ones, did not he that made the outside make the inside also?
\v 41 But give for alms those things which are within; and behold, all things are clean to you.
\p
\v 42 But woe to you Pharisees! for you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and pass over justice and the love of God: but
these ought you to have done, and not to leave the other undone.
\v 43 Woe to you Pharisees! for you love the chief seats in the synagogues, and the salutations in the marketplaces.
\v 44 Woe to you! for you are as the tombs which appear not, and the men that walk over
them know it not.
\p
\v 45 And one of the lawyers answering says to him, Teacher, in saying this you reproachest us also.
\v 46 And he said, Woe to you lawyours also! for you load men with burdens grievous to be borne, and you yourselves touch not
the burdens with one of your fingers.
\v 47 Woe to you! for you build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
\v 48 So you are witnesses and consent to the works of your fathers: for they killed them, and you build
their tombs.
\v 49 Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send to them prophets and apostles; and
some of them they shall kill and persecute;
\v 50 that the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation;
\v 51 from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary: yea, I say to
you, it shall be required of this generation.
\v 52 Woe to you lawyours! for you took away the key of knowledge: you entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in
you hindered.
\p
\v 53 And when he was come out from thence, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press upon
him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of many things;
\v 54 laying wait for him, to catch something out of his mouth.