\c 12
\p
\v 1 In the mean time, when the many thousands of the multitude were gathered together, insomuch that they trod one upon
another, he began to say to his disciples first of all, Beware you of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
\v 2 But there is nothing covered up, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known.
\v 3 Wherefore whatever you have said in the darkness shall be heard in the light; and what you have spoken in the ear in the
inner chambers shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.
\v 4 And I say to you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
\v 5 But I will warn you whom you shall fear: Fear him, who after he has killed has power to cast into hell; youa, I say to
you, Fear him.
\v 6 Are not five sparrows sold for two pence? and not one of them is forgotten in the sight of God.
\v 7 But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not: you are of more value than many sparrows.
\v 8 And I say to you, Every one who shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of
God:
\v 9 but he that denieth me in the presence of men shall be denied in the presence of the angels of God.
\v 10 And every one who shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but to him that blasphemeth
against the Holy Spirit it shall not be forgiven.
\v 11 And when they bring you before the synagogues, and the rulers, and the authorities, be not anxious how or what you shall
answer, or what you shall say:
\v 12 for the Holy Spirit shall teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.
\p
\v 13 And one out of the multitude said to him, Teacher, command my brother divide the inheritance with me.
\v 14 But he said to him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you?
\v 15 And he said to them, Take heed, and keep yourselves from all covetousness: for a man’s life consisteth not in the
abundance of the things which he possesseth.
\v 16 And he spoke a parable to them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:
\v 17 and he reasoned within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have not where to bestow my fruits?
\v 18 And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my grain and my
goods.
\v 19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have much goods laid up for many years; take your ease, eat, drink, be merry.
\v 20 But God said to him, You foolish one, this night is your soul required of thee; and the things which you have
prepared, whose shall they be?
\v 21 So is he that lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.
\p
\v 22 And he said to his disciples, Therefore I say to you, Be not anxious for
your life, what you shall eat; nor yout for your body, what you shall put on.
\v 23 For the life is more than the food, and the body than the raiment.
\v 24 Consider the ravens, that they sow not, neither reap; which have no store-chamber nor barn; and God feedeth them: of how
much more value are you than the birds!
\v 25 And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit to the measure of his life?
\v 26 If then you are not able to do even that which is least, why are you anxious concerning the rest?
\v 27 Consider the lilies, how they grow: they toil not, neither do they spin; yet I say to you, Even Solomon in all his
glory was not arrayed like one of these.
\v 28 But if God does so clothe the grass in the field, which today is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven; how much more
shall he clothe you, O you of little faith?
\v 29 And seek not you what you shall eat, and what you shall drink, neither be you of doubtful mind.
\v 30 For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: but your Father knows that you have need of these things.
\v 31 Yet seek you his kingdom, and these things shall be added to you.
\v 32 Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
\v 33 Sell that which you have, and give alms; make for yourselves purses which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that
fails not, where no thief draweth near, neither moth destroyeth.
\v 34 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
\p
\v 35 Let your loins be girded about, and your lamps burning;
\v 36 and be you yourselves like to men looking for their lord, when he shall return from the marriage feast; that, when he
comes and knocketh, they may straightway open to him.
\v 37 Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he comes shall find watching: verily I say to you, that he shall gird
himself, and make them sit down to meat, and shall come and serve them.
\v 38 And if he shall come in the second watch, and if in the third, and find
them so, blessed are those servants.
\v 39 But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and
not have left his house to be broken through.
\v 40 Be you also ready: for in an hour that you think not the Son of man cometh.
\p
\v 41 And Peter said, Lord, speak you this parable to us, or even to all?
\v 42 And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall set over his household, to give them
their portion of food in due season?
\v 43 Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he comes shall find so doing.
\v 44 Of a truth I say to you, that he will set him over all that he hath.
\v 45 But if that servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and the
maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken;
\v 46 the lord of that servant shall come in a day when he expecteth not, and in an hour when he knows not, and shall cut him
asunder, and appoint his portion with the unfaithful.
\v 47 And that servant, who knew his lord’s will, and made not ready, nor did according to his will, shall be beaten with many
stripes;
\v 48 but he that knew not, and did things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few
stripes. And to whoever much is given, of him shall much be required: and to whom they commit much, of him will
they ask the more.
\p
\v 49 I came to cast fire upon the earth; and what do I desire, if it is already kindled?
\v 50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished!
\v 51 Think you that I am come to give peace in the earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:
\v 52 for there shall be from henceforth five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
\v 53 They shall be divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her
mother; mother in law against her daughter in law, and daughter in law against her mother in law.
\p
\v 54 And he said to the multitudes also, When you see a cloud rising in the west, straightway you say, There comes a shower;
and so it comes to pass.
\v 55 And when you see a south wind blowing, you say, There will be a scorching heat; and it comes to pass.
\v 56 You hypocrites, you know how to interpret the face of the earth and the heaven; but how is it that you know not how to
interpret this time?
\v 57 And why even of yourselves judge you not what is right?
\v 58 For as you are going with your adversary before the magistrate, on the way give diligence to be quit of him; lest haply
he drag you to the judge, and the judge shall deliver you to the officer, and the officer shall cast you into prison.
\v 59 I say to thee, You shall by no means come out thence, till you have paid the very last mite.