\c 13
\p
\v 1 Now there were some present at that very season who told him of the Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their
sacrifices.
\v 2 And he answered and said to them, Think you that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they have
suffered these things?
\v 3 I tell you, Nay: but, except you repent, you shall all in like manner perish.
\v 4 Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them, think you that they were offenders above all the
men that dwell in Jerusalem?
\v 5 I tell you, Nay: but, except you repent, you shall all likewise perish.
\p
\v 6 And he spoke this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came seeking fruit thereon, and
found none.
\v 7 And he said to the vinedresser, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it
down; why does it also cumber the ground?
\v 8 And he answering says to him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it:
\v 9 and if it bear fruit thenceforth, well; but if not, you shall cut it down.
\p
\v 10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath day.
\v 11 And behold, a woman that had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years; and she was bowed together, and could in no wise lift
herself up.
\v 12 And when Jesus saw her, he called her, and said to her, Woman, you are loosed from your infirmity.
\v 13 And he laid his hands upon her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.
\v 14 And the ruler of the synagogue, being moved with indignation because Jesus had healed on the sabbath, answered and said
to the multitude, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the day of
the sabbath.
\v 15 But the Lord answered him, and said, You hypocrites, does not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from
the stall, and lead him away to watering?
\v 16 And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound, lo,
these eighteen years, to have been loosed from this bond on the day of the sabbath?
\v 17 And as he said these things, all his adversaries were put to shame: and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious
things that were done by him.
\p
\v 18 He said therefore, To what is the kingdom of God like? and whereunto shall I liken it?
\v 19 It is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his own garden; and it grew, and became a tree;
and the birds of the heaven lodged in the branches thereof.
\p
\v 20 And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?
\v 21 It is like to leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till it was all leavened.
\p
\v 22 And he went on his way through cities and villages, teaching, and journeying on to Jerusalem.
\v 23 And one said to him, Lord, are they few that are saved? And he said to them,
\v 24 Strive to enter in by the narrow door: for many, I say to you, shall seek to enter in, and shall not be able.
\v 25 When once the master of the house is risen up, and has shut to the door, and you begin to stand without, and to knock at
the door, saying, Lord, open to us; and he shall answer and say to you, I know you not whence you are;
\v 26 then shall you begin to say, We did eat and drink in your presence, and you did teach in our streets;
\v 27 and he shall say, I tell you, I know not whence you are; depart from me, all you workers of iniquity.
\v 28 There shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth, when you shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the
prophets, in the kingdom of God, and yourselves cast forth without.
\v 29 And they shall come from the east and west, and from the north and south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God.
\v 30 And behold, there are last who shall be first, and there are first who shall be last.
\p
\v 31 In that very hour there came certain Pharisees, saying to him, Get you out, and go hence: for Herod would fain kill
thee.
\v 32 And he said to them, Go and say to that fox, Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and to-morrow, and the
third day I am perfected.
\v 33 Nevertheless I must go on my way today and to-morrow and the
day following: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.
\v 34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that kills the prophets, and stoneth them that are sent to her! how often would I have
gathered your children together, even as a hen gathers her own brood under her wings, and you would not!
\v 35 Behold, your house is left to you desolate: and I say to you, You shall not see me, until you shall say,
Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord.