\c 14
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when he went into the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on a sabbath to eat bread, that
they were watching him.
\v 2 And behold, there was before him a certain man that had the dropsy.
\v 3 And Jesus answering spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath, or not?
\v 4 But they held their peace. And he took him, and healed him, and let him go.
\v 5 And he said to them, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a well, and will not straightway draw him up on
a sabbath day?
\v 6 And they could not answer again to these things.
\p
\v 7 And he spoke a parable to those that were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief seats; saying to them,
\v 8 When you are commanded of any man to a marriage feast, sit not down in the chief seat; lest haply a more honorable man than
you be commanded of him,
\v 9 and he that bade you and him shall come and say to you, Give this man place; and then you shall begin with shame to
take the lowest place.
\v 10 But when you are commanded, go and sit down in the lowest place; that when he that has commanded you cometh, he may say to
thee, Friend, go up higher: then shall you have glory in the presence of all that sit at meat with thee.
\v 11 For every one that exalts himself shall be humbled; and he that humbles himself shall be exalted.
\p
\v 12 And he said to him also that had commanded him, When you make a dinner or a supper, call not your friends, nor your
brethren, nor your kinsmen, nor rich neighbors; lest haply they also command you again, and a recompense be made you.
\v 13 But when you make a feast, command the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind:
\v 14 and you shall be blessed; because they have not wherewith
to recompense thee: for you shall be recompensed in the resurrection of the just.
\p
\v 15 And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said to him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread
in the kingdom of God.
\v 16 But he said to him, A certain man made a great supper; and he bade many:
\v 17 and he sent forth his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for
all things are now ready.
\v 18 And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said to him, I have bought a field, and I must
needs go out and see it; I pray you have me excused.
\v 19 And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them; I pray you have me excused.
\v 20 And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.
\v 21 And the servant came, and told his lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go
out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor and maimed and blind and lame.
\v 22 And the servant said, Lord, what you did command is done, and yet there is room.
\v 23 And the lord said to the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and constrain
them to come in, that my house may be filled.
\v 24 For I say to you, that none of those men that were commanded shall taste of my supper.
\p
\v 25 Now there went with him great multitudes: and he turned, and said to them,
\v 26 If any man comes to me, and hates not his own father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters,
yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.
\v 27 Whosoever does not bear his own cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple.
\v 28 For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he have
wherewith to complete it?
\v 29 Lest haply, when he has laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, all that behold begin to mock him,
\v 30 saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.
\v 31 Or what king, as he goes to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and take counsel whether he is able
with ten thousand to meet him that comes against him with twenty thousand?
\v 32 Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends an ambassage, and asks conditions of peace.
\v 33 So therefore whoever he be of you that renounceth not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.
\v 34 Salt therefore is good: but if even the salt have lost its savor, wherewith shall it be seasoned?
\v 35 It is fit neither for the land nor for the dunghill: men
cast it out. He that has ears to hear, let him hear.