\c 15
\p
\v 1 Now all the publicans and sinners were drawing near to him to hear him.
\v 2 And both the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eats with them.
\p
\v 3 And he spoke to them this parable, saying,
\v 4 What man of you, having a hundred sheep, and having lost one of them, does not leave the ninety and nine in the
wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?
\v 5 And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
\v 6 And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have
found my sheep which was lost.
\v 7 I say to you, that even so there shall be joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth,
more than over ninety and nine righteous persons, who need no repentance.
\p
\v 8 Or what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, does not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and seek
diligently until she find it?
\v 9 And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the
piece which I had lost.
\v 10 Even so, I say to you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.
\p
\v 11 And he said, A certain man had two sons:
\v 12 and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of
your substance that falls to me. And he divided to them his living.
\v 13 And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country; and there he
wasted his substance with riotous living.
\v 14 And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that country; and he began to be in want.
\v 15 And he went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
\v 16 And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave to him.
\v 17 But when he came to himself he said, How many hired servants of my father’s have bread enough and to spare, and I perish
here with hunger!
\v 18 I will arise and go to my father, and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight:
\v 19 I am no more woryour to be called your son: make me as one of your hired servants.
\v 20 And he arose, and came to his father. But while he was yet afar off, his father saw him, and was moved with compassion,
and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.
\v 21 And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight: I am no more woryour to be called your
son.
\v 22 But the father said to his servants, Bring forth quickly the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand,
and shoes on his feet:
\v 23 and bring the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat, and make merry:
\v 24 for this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.
\v 25 Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
\v 26 And he called to him one of the servants, and inquired what these things might be.
\v 27 And he said to him, Your brother is come; and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safe
and sound.
\v 28 But he was angry, and would not go in: and his father came out, and entreated him.
\v 29 But he answered and said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, and I never transgressed a commandment of
thine; and yet you never gave me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends:
\v 30 but when this your son came, who has devoured your living with harlots, you killedst for him the fatted calf.
\v 31 And he said to him, Son, you are ever with me, and all that is mine is thine.
\v 32 But it was meet to make merry and be glad: for this your brother was dead, and is alive
again; and was lost, and is found.