\c 3
\s 2 Timothy 3:1-9
\sr Realize that evil people will cause the last days to be difficult. Avoid such people.
\p
\v 1 You need to realize that during the last days  before Christ returns, evil people will make it difficult for believers to behave as they should.
\v 2 This is because such evil people will be habitually loving themselves and loving money. They will habitually boast about themselves, they will be proud, and will often say bad things about others. They will disobey their parents. They will not be thankful, nor will they respect anything that is good.
\v 3 They will not even love their own family, nor agree with anybody . They will tell lies about people. They will not control what they say and do, nor allow anyone to control them. They will not love anything that is good.
\v 4 They will betray others and act foolishly. They will be overly, Or: very proud of themselves, and they will love to please themselves instead of loving God.
\v 5 And, although they will pretend that they worship God, they will not let God's Spirit work powerfully in their lives. Do not associate with such people ,
\v 6 because some such people, even now, subtly the many evil things that they strongly desire to do.
\v 7 Even though they are always wanting to learn new things, they are never able to recognize what is true.
\v 8 Just like Jannes and Jambres long ago very much opposed Moses, so also some people now oppose the true message. Those people think only what is evil. God rejects them because they do not believe what is true.
\v 9 Nevertheless, they will not continue to succeed, because most  people will understand clearly that such people are foolish, just like people also realized clearly that Jannes and Jambres were foolish.
\s 2 Timothy 3:10-17
\sr Continue to believe what you have learned and been assured of.
\p
\v 10 But as for yourself, you have fully known what I have taught. You have known and imitated the way in which I conducted my life, and what I have been trying to do. You have trusted God as I haveYou have been patient as I have been. You have loved people as I have and you have endured as you suffered like I have suffered.
\v 11 You know how I endured many times when people harmed me. They caused me to suffer at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra cities. But although they caused me to suffer, I endured it; and every time they did those things to me, the Lord rescued me.
\v 12 Indeed because we have a close relationship with Christ Jesus.
\v 13 Evil people . Specifically, they will deceive other people, and those who hear them will deceive others.
\v 14 But you, in contrast, must continue to believe what you have learned and been assured of.
\v 15 From the time when you were a child you have known the holy writings. You now know that they enabled you to become wise so that God saved you because of your believing in Christ Jesus.
\v 16 God inspired, and to train, Or: teach us to do what is right.
\v 17 What is written  in order to do every kind of good deeds.
