\c 1
\p
\v 1 Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained a like precious faith with us in the
righteousness of our God and the Saviour Jesus Christ:
\v 2 Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord;
\v 3 seeing that his divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge
of him that called us by his own glory and virtue;
\v 4 whereby he has granted to us his precious and exceeding great promises; that through these you may become partakers of
the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world by lust.
\v 5 Yea, and for this very cause adding on your part all diligence, in your faith supply virtue; and in
your virtue knowledge;
\v 6 and in your knowledge self-control; and in your
self-control patience; and in your patience godliness;
\v 7 and in your godliness brotherly kindness; and in your
brotherly kindness love.
\v 8 For if these things are yours and abound, they make you to be not idle nor unfruitful to the knowledge of our Lord Jesus
Christ.
\v 9 For he that lacketh these things is blind, seeing only what is near, having forgotten the cleansing from his old sins.
\v 10 Wherefore, brethren, give the more diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if you do these things, you shall
never stumble:
\v 11 for thus shall be richly supplied to you the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
\p
\v 12 Wherefore I shall be ready always to put you in remembrance of these things, though you know them, and are established in
the truth which is with you.
\v 13 And I think it right, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance;
\v 14 knowing that the putting off of my tabernacle comes swiftly, even as our Lord Jesus Christ signified to me.
\v 15 Yea, I will give diligence that at every time you may be able after my decease to call these things to remembrance.
\v 16 For we did not follow cunningly devised fables, when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
\v 17 For he received from God the Father honor and glory, when there was borne such a voice to him by the Majestic Glory, This
is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased:
\v 18 and this voice we ourselves heard borne out of heaven, when we were with him in the holy mount.
\v 19 And we have the word of prophecy made more sure; whereto you do well that you take heed, as to a lamp shining
in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day-star arise in your hearts:
\v 20 knowing this first, that no prophecy of scripture is of private interpretation.
\v 21 For no prophecy ever came by the will of man: but men spoke from God, being moved by the Holy Spirit.