\c 2
\p
\v 1 And when any one offers an oblation of a meal-offering to Jehovah, his oblation shall be of fine flour; and he shall
pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:
\v 2 and he shall bring it to Aaron’s sons the priests; and he shall take thereout his handful of the fine flour thereof, and
of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof. And the priest shall burn
it as the memorial thereof upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah:
\v 3 and that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of
Jehovah made by fire.
\p
\v 4 And when you offerest an oblation of a meal-offering baken in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour
mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
\v 5 And if your oblation be a meal-offering of the baking-pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
\v 6 You shall part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meal-offering.
\v 7 And if your oblation be a meal-offering of the frying-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
\v 8 And you shall bring the meal-offering that is made of these things to Jehovah: and it shall be presented to the
priest, and he shall bring it to the altar.
\v 9 And the priest shall take up from the meal-offering the memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar, an offering
made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
\v 10 And that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of
Jehovah made by fire.
\p
\v 11 No meal-offering, which you shall offer to Jehovah, shall be made with leaven; for you shall burn no leaven, nor any
honey, as an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\v 12 As an oblation of first fruits you shall offer them to Jehovah: but they shall not come up for a sweet savor
on the altar.
\v 13 And every oblation of your meal-offering shall you season with salt; neither shall you suffer the salt of the covenant
of your God to be lacking from your meal-offering: with all your oblations you shall offer salt.
\p
\v 14 And if you offer a meal-offering of first fruits to Jehovah, you shall offer for the meal-offering of your
first fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised grain of the fresh ear.
\v 15 And you shall put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a meal-offering.
\v 16 And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the bruised grain thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all
the frankincense thereof: it is an offering made by fire to Jehovah.