\c 3
\p
\v 1 And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace-offerings; if he offer of the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it
without blemish before Jehovah.
\v 2 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting: and Aaron’s sons
the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
\v 3 And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire to Jehovah; the fat that covers the
inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
\v 4 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys,
shall he take away.
\v 5 And Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt-offering, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an
offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
\p
\v 6 And if his oblation for a sacrifice of peace-offerings to Jehovah be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it
without blemish.
\v 7 If he offer a lamb for his oblation, then shall he offer it before Jehovah;
\v 8 and he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it before the tent of meeting: and Aaron’s sons shall
sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
\v 9 And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire to Jehovah; the fat thereof, the fat
tail entire, he shall take away hard by the backbone; and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the
inwards,
\v 10 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys,
shall he take away.
\v 11 And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\p
\v 12 And if his oblation be a goat, then he shall offer it before Jehovah:
\v 13 and he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall
sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
\v 14 And he shall offer thereof his oblation, even an offering made by fire to Jehovah; the fat that covers the
inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
\v 15 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys,
shall he take away.
\v 16 And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a sweet savor; all the
fat is Jehovah’s.
\v 17 It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that you shall eat neither fat nor
blood.