\c 6
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 If any one sin, and commit a trespass against Jehovah, and deal falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of
bargain, or of robbery, or have oppressed his neighbor,
\v 3 or have found that which was lost, and deal falsely therein, and swear to a lie; in any of all these things that a man
doeth, sinning therein;
\v 4 then it shall be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing
which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found,
\v 5 or any thing about which he has sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in full, and shall add the fifth part more
thereto: to him to whom it pertains shall he give it, in the day of his being found guilty.
\v 6 And he shall bring his trespass-offering to Jehovah, a ram without blemish out of the flock, according to your
estimation, for a trespass-offering, to the priest:
\v 7 and the priest shall make atonement for him before Jehovah; and he shall be forgiven concerning whatever he does so as
to be guilty thereby.
\p
\v 8 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 9 Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: the burnt offering shall be on the hearth upon
the altar all night to the morning; and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning thereon.
\v 10 And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh; and he shall take up
the ashes whereto the fire has consumed the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
\v 11 And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp to a clean
place.
\v 12 And the fire upon the altar shall be kept burning thereon, it shall not go out; and the priest shall burn wood on it
every morning: and he shall lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and shall burn thereon the fat of the peace-offerings.
\v 13 Fire shall be kept burning upon the altar continually; it shall not go out.
\p
\v 14 And this is the law of the meal-offering: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before Jehovah, before the altar.
\v 15 And he shall take up therefrom his handful, of the fine flour of the meal-offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the
frankincense which is upon the meal-offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor, as the memorial thereof, to
Jehovah.
\v 16 And that which is left thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: it shall be eaten without leaven in a holy place; in the
court of the tent of meeting they shall eat it.
\v 17 It shall not be baken with leaven. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire; it is most holy, as the
sin-offering, and as the trespass-offering.
\v 18 Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it, as
his portion for ever throughout your generations, from the offerings of Jehovah made by fire: whoever touches
them shall be holy.
\p
\v 19 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 20 This is the oblation of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to Jehovah in the day when he is anointed: the
tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half thereof in the
evening.
\v 21 On a baking-pan it shall be made with oil; when it is soaked, you shall bring it in: in baken pieces shall you offer
the meal-offering for a sweet savor to Jehovah.
\v 22 And the anointed priest that shall be in his stead from among his sons shall offer it: by a statute for ever it shall be
wholly burnt to Jehovah.
\v 23 And every meal-offering of the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.
\p
\v 24 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 25 Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin-offering: in the place where the burnt offering is
killed shall the sin-offering be killed before Jehovah: it is most holy.
\v 26 The priest that offers it for sin shall eat it: in a holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tent of meeting.
\v 27 Whatsoever shall touch the flesh thereof shall be holy; and when there is sprinkled of the blood thereof upon any
garment, you shall wash that whereon it was sprinkled in a holy place.
\v 28 But the earthen vessel wherein it is boiled shall be broken; and if it be boiled in a brazen vessel, it shall be scoured,
and rinsed in water.
\v 29 Every male among the priests shall eat thereof: it is most holy.
\v 30 And no sin-offering, whereof any of the blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place,
shall be eaten: it shall be burnt with fire.