\c 7
\p
\v 1 And this is the law of the trespass-offering: it is most holy.
\v 2 In the place where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill the trespass-offering; and the blood thereof shall he
sprinkle upon the altar round about.
\v 3 And he shall offer of it all the fat thereof: the fat tail, and the fat that covers the inwards,
\v 4 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys,
shall he take away;
\v 5 and the priest shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made by fire to Jehovah: it is a trespass-offering.
\v 6 Every male among the priests shall eat thereof: it shall be eaten in a holy place: it is most holy.
\v 7 As is the sin-offering, so is the trespass-offering; there is one law for them: the priest that makes atonement
therewith, he shall have it.
\v 8 And the priest that offers any man’s burnt-offering, even the priest shall have to himself the skin of the
burnt offering which he has offered.
\v 9 And every meal-offering that is baken in the oven, and all that is dressed in the frying-pan, and on the baking-pan, shall
be the priest’s that offers it.
\v 10 And every meal-offering, mingled with oil, or dry, shall all the sons of Aaron have, one as well as another.
\p
\v 11 And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which one shall offer to Jehovah.
\v 12 If he offer it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with
oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of fine flour soaked.
\v 13 With cakes of leavened bread he shall offer his oblation with the sacrifice of his peace-offerings for thanksgiving.
\v 14 And of it he shall offer one out of each oblation for a heave-offering to Jehovah; it shall be the priest’s that
sprinkleth the blood of the peace-offerings.
\p
\v 15 And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his oblation; he
shall not leave any of it until the morning.
\v 16 But if the sacrifice of his oblation be a vow, or a freewill-offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his
sacrifice; and on the morrow that which remains of it shall be eaten:
\v 17 but that which remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire.
\v 18 And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings be eaten on the third day, it shall not be accepted,
neither shall it be imputed to him that offers it: it shall be an abomination, and the soul that eats of it shall bear
his iniquity.
\p
\v 19 And the flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire. And as for the flesh,
every one that is clean shall eat thereof:
\v 20 but the soul that eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offerings, that pertain to Jehovah, having his
uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
\v 21 And when any one shall touch any unclean thing, the uncleanness of man, or an unclean beast, or any unclean abomination,
and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which pertain to Jehovah, that soul shall be cut off from his
people.
\p
\v 22 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 23 Speak to the children of Israel, saying, You shall eat no fat, of ox, or sheep, or goat.
\v 24 And the fat of that which dieth of itself, and the fat of that which is torn of beasts, may be used for any other
service; but you shall in no wise eat of it.
\v 25 For whoever eats the fat of the beast, of which men offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah, even the soul that
eats it shall be cut off from his people.
\v 26 And you shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of bird or of beast, in any of your dwellings.
\v 27 Whosoever it be that eats any blood, that soul shall be cut off from his people.
\p
\v 28 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 29 Speak to the children of Israel, saying, He that offers the sacrifice of his peace-offerings to Jehovah shall bring
his oblation to Jehovah out of the sacrifice of his peace-offerings:
\v 30 his own hands shall bring the offerings of Jehovah made by fire; the fat with the breast shall he bring, that the breast
may be waved for a wave-offering before Jehovah.
\v 31 And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar; but the breast shall be Aaron’s and his sons’.
\v 32 And the right thigh shall you give to the priest for a heave-offering out of the sacrifices of your peace-offerings.
\v 33 He among the sons of Aaron that offers the blood of the peace-offerings, and the fat, shall have the right thigh for a
portion.
\v 34 For the wave-breast and the heave-thigh have I taken of the children of Israel out of the sacrifices of their
peace-offerings, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as
their portion for ever from the children of Israel.
\p
\v 35 This is the anointing-portion of Aaron, and the anointing-portion of his sons, out of the offerings of Jehovah made by
fire, in the day when he presented them to minister to Jehovah in the priest’s office;
\v 36 which Jehovah commanded to be given them of the children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them. It is
their portion for ever throughout their generations.
\p
\v 37 This is the law of the burnt-offering, of the meal-offering, and of the sin-offering, and of the trespass-offering, and
of the consecration, and of the sacrifice of peace-offerings;
\v 38 which Jehovah commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their
oblations to Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai.