\c 9
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
\v 2 and he said to Aaron, Take you a calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish,
and offer them before Jehovah.
\v 3 And to the children of Israel you shall speak, saying, Take you a he-goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a lamb,
both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt-offering;
\v 4 and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a meal-offering mingled with oil: for today
Jehovah appears to you.
\v 5 And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood
before Jehovah.
\v 6 And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah commanded that you should do: and the glory of Jehovah shall appear to
you.
\v 7 And Moses said to Aaron, Draw near to the altar, and offer your sin-offering, and your burnt-offering, and make
atonement for thyself, and for the people; and offer the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them; as Jehovah
commanded.
\p
\v 8 So Aaron drew near to the altar, and killed the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself.
\v 9 And the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of
the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar:
\v 10 but the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul from the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt upon the altar; as Jehovah
commanded Moses.
\v 11 And the flesh and the skin he burnt with fire without the camp.
\p
\v 12 And he killed the burnt-offering; and Aaron’s sons delivered to him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round
about.
\v 13 And they delivered the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar.
\v 14 And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt offering on the altar.
\p
\v 15 And he presented the people’s oblation, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people, and killed it, and
offered it for sin, as the first.
\v 16 And he presented the burnt-offering, and offered it according to the ordinance.
\v 17 And he presented the meal-offering, and filled his hand therefrom, and burnt it upon the altar, besides the
burnt offering of the morning.
\p
\v 18 He killed also the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron’s sons delivered
to him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,
\v 19 and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers
the inwards, and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver:
\v 20 and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar:
\v 21 and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave-offering before Jehovah; as Moses commanded.
\p
\v 22 And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin-offering, and
the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings.
\v 23 And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of Jehovah
appeared to all the people.
\v 24 And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat: and when all
the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.