\c 10
\p
\v 1 And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took each of them his censer, and put fire therein, and laid incense thereon, and
offered strange fire before Jehovah, which he had not commanded them.
\v 2 And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and devoured them, and they died before Jehovah.
\v 3 Then Moses said to Aaron, This is it that Jehovah spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come near me, and
before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace.
\v 4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Draw near, carry your
brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp.
\v 5 So they drew near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said.
\v 6 And Moses said to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons, Let not the hair of your heads go loose, neither
rend your clothes; that you die not, and that he be not angry with all the congregation: but let your brethren, the whole house
of Israel, bewail the burning which Jehovah has kindled.
\v 7 And you shall not go out from the door of the tent of meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of Jehovah is upon you.
And they did according to the word of Moses.
\p
\v 8 And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, saying,
\v 9 Drink no wine nor strong drink, thou, nor your sons with thee, when you go into the tent of meeting, that you die not: it
shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations:
\v 10 and that you may make a distinction between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean;
\v 11 and that you may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which Jehovah has spoken to them by Moses.
\p
\v 12 And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons that were left, Take the meal-offering that
remains of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, and eat it without leaven beside the altar; for it is most holy;
\v 13 and you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your portion, and your sons’ portion, of the offerings of Jehovah made
by fire: for so I am commanded.
\v 14 And the wave-breast and the heave-thigh shall you eat in a clean place, thou, and your sons, and your daughters with thee:
for they are given as your portion, and your sons’ portion, out of the sacrifices of the peace-offerings of the children of
Israel.
\v 15 The heave-thigh and the wave-breast shall they bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a
wave-offering before Jehovah: and it shall be thine, and your sons’ with thee, as a portion for ever; as Jehovah has commanded.
\p
\v 16 And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin-offering, and, behold, it was burnt: and he was angry with Eleazar and
with Ithamar, the sons of Aaron that were left, saying,
\v 17 Wherefore have you not eaten the sin-offering in the place of the sanctuary, seeing it is most holy, and he has given it
you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before Jehovah?
\v 18 Behold, the blood of it was not brought into the sanctuary within: you should certainly have eaten it in the sanctuary, as
I commanded.
\v 19 And Aaron spoke to Moses, Behold, this day have they offered their sin-offering and their burnt offering before
Jehovah; and there have befallen me such things as these: and if I had eaten the sin-offering to-day, would it have been
well-pleasing in the sight of Jehovah?
\v 20 And when Moses heard that, it was well-pleasing in his sight.