\c 11
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, saying, These are the living things which you may eat among all the beasts that are on
the earth.
\v 3 Whatsoever parts the hoof, and is clovenfooted, and cheweth the cud, among the beasts, that may you eat.
\v 4 Nevertheless these shall you not eat of them that chew the cud, or of them that part the hoof: the camel, because he
cheweth the cud but parts not the hoof, he is unclean to you.
\v 5 And the coney, because he cheweth the cud but parts not the hoof, he is unclean to you.
\v 6 And the hare, because she cheweth the cud but parts not the hoof, she is unclean to you.
\v 7 And the swine, because he parts the hoof, and is clovenfooted, but cheweth not the cud, he is unclean to you.
\v 8 Of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch; they are unclean to you.
\p
\v 9 These may you eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the
rivers, that may you eat.
\v 10 And all that have not fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of all the
living creatures that are in the waters, they are an abomination to you,
\v 11 and they shall be an abomination to you; you shall not eat of their flesh, and their carcasses you shall have in
abomination.
\v 12 Whatsoever has no fins nor scales in the waters, that is an abomination to you.
\p
\v 13 And these you shall have in abomination among the birds; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and
the gier-eagle, and the ospray,
\v 14 and the kite, and the falcon after its kind,
\v 15 every raven after its kind,
\v 16 and the ostrich, and the night-hawk, and the sea-mew, and the hawk after its kind,
\v 17 and the little owl, and the cormorant, and the great owl,
\v 18 and the horned owl, and the pelican, and the vulture,
\v 19 and the stork, the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat.
\p
\v 20 All winged creeping things that go upon all fours are an abomination to you.
\v 21 Yet these may you eat of all winged creeping things that go upon all fours, which have legs above their feet, wherewith to
leap upon the earth;
\v 22 even these of them you may eat: the locust after its kind, and the bald locust after its kind, and the cricket after its
kind, and the grasshopper after its kind.
\v 23 But all winged creeping things, which have four feet, are an abomination to you.
\p
\v 24 And by these you shall become unclean: whoever touches the carcass of them shall be unclean until the even;
\v 25 and whoever bears anything of the carcass of them shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even.
\v 26 Every beast which parts the hoof, and is not clovenfooted, nor cheweth the cud, is unclean to you: every one that
touches them shall be unclean.
\v 27 And whatever goes upon its paws, among all beasts that go on all fours, they are unclean to you: whoso touches
their carcass shall be unclean until the even.
\v 28 And he that bears the carcass of them shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: they are unclean to you.
\p
\v 29 And these are they which are unclean to you among the creeping things that creep upon the earth: the weasel, and the
mouse, and the great lizard after its kind,
\v 30 and the gecko, and the land-crocodile, and the lizard, and the sand-lizard, and the chameleon.
\v 31 These are they which are unclean to you among all that creep: whoever does touch them, when they are dead, shall be
unclean until the even.
\v 32 And upon whatever any of them, when they are dead, does fall, it shall be unclean; whether it be any vessel of wood, or
raiment, or skin, or sack, whatever vessel it be, wherewith any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be
unclean until the even; then shall it be clean.
\v 33 And every earthen vessel, whereinto any of them falleth, whatever is in it shall be unclean, and it you shall break.
\v 34 All food therein which may be eaten, that on which water cometh, shall be unclean; and all drink that may be
drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.
\v 35 And every thing whereupon any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean; whether oven, or range for pots,
it shall be broken in pieces: they are unclean, and shall be unclean to you.
\v 36 Nevertheless a fountain or a pit wherein is a gathering of water shall be clean: but that which touches their carcass
shall be unclean.
\v 37 And if anything of their carcass fall upon any sowing seed which is to be sown, it is clean.
\v 38 But if water be put upon the seed, and anything of their carcass fall thereon, it is unclean to you.
\p
\v 39 And if any beast, of which you may eat, die; he that touches the carcass thereof shall be unclean until the even.
\v 40 And he that eats of the carcass of it shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: he also that bears the
carcass of it shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even.
\p
\v 41 And every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth is an abomination; it shall not be eaten.
\v 42 Whatsoever goes upon the belly, and whatever goes upon all fours, or whatever has many feet, even all creeping
things that creep upon the earth, them you shall not eat; for they are an abomination.
\v 43 You shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creepeth, neither shall you make yourselves unclean
with them, that you should be defiled thereby.
\v 44 For I am Jehovah your God: sanctify yourselves therefore, and be you holy; for I am holy: neither shall you defile
yourselves with any manner of creeping thing that moveth upon the earth.
\v 45 For I am Jehovah that brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: you shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.
\p
\v 46 This is the law of the beast, and of the bird, and of every living creature that moveth in the waters, and of every
creature that creepeth upon the earth;
\v 47 to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean, and between the living thing that may be eaten and the living
thing that may not be eaten.