\c 15
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When any man has an issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he
is unclean.
\v 3 And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his
issue, it is his uncleanness.
\v 4 Every bed whereon he that has the issue lies shall be unclean; and everything whereon he sits shall be unclean.
\v 5 And whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
\v 6 And he that sits on anything whereon he that has the issue sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and
be unclean until the even.
\v 7 And he that touches the flesh of him that has the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be
unclean until the even.
\v 8 And if he that has the issue spit upon him that is clean, then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and
be unclean until the even.
\v 9 And what saddle soever he that has the issue rideth upon shall be unclean.
\v 10 And whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the even: and he that bears those things
shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
\v 11 And whoever he that has the issue toucheth, without having rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and
bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
\v 12 And the earthen vessel, which he that has the issue toucheth, shall be broken; and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed
in water.
\p
\v 13 And when he that has an issue is cleansed of his issue, then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing,
and wash his clothes; and he shall bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.
\v 14 And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and come before Jehovah to the door
of the tent of meeting, and give them to the priest:
\v 15 and the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering; and the priest shall
make atonement for him before Jehovah for his issue.
\p
\v 16 And if any man’s seed of copulation go out from him, then he shall bathe all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the
even.
\v 17 And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until
the even.
\v 18 The woman also with whom a man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be
unclean until the even.
\p
\v 19 And if a woman have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be in her impurity seven days: and
whoever touches her shall be unclean until the even.
\v 20 And everything that she lies upon in her impurity shall be unclean: everything also that she sits upon shall be
unclean.
\v 21 And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
\v 22 And whoever touches anything that she sits upon shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean
until the even.
\v 23 And if it be on the bed, or on anything whereon she sitteth, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the even.
\v 24 And if any man lie with her, and her impurity be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days; and every bed whereon he lies
shall be unclean.
\p
\v 25 And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days not in the time of her impurity, or if she have an issue beyond the
time of her impurity; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness she shall be as in the days of her impurity: she is unclean.
\v 26 Every bed whereon she lies all the days of her issue shall be to her as the bed of her impurity: and everything
whereon she sits shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her impurity.
\v 27 And whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be
unclean until the even.
\v 28 But if she be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
\v 29 And on the eighth day she shall take to her two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to
the door of the tent of meeting.
\v 30 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering; and the priest shall make
atonement for her before Jehovah for the issue of her uncleanness.
\p
\v 31 Thus shall you separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, that they die not in their uncleanness, when they
defile my tabernacle that is in the midst of them.
\p
\v 32 This is the law of him that has an issue, and of him whose seed of copulation goes from him, so that he is unclean
thereby;
\v 33 and of her that is sick with her impurity, and of him that has an issue, of the man, and of the woman, and of him that
lies with her that is unclean.