\c 17
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them: This is the thing which
Jehovah has commanded, saying,
\v 3 What man soever there be of the house of Israel, that kills an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or that kills it
without the camp,
\v 4 and has not brought it to the door of the tent of meeting, to offer it as an oblation to Jehovah before the
tabernacle of Jehovah: blood shall be imputed to that man; he has shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his
people:
\v 5 to the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they sacrifice in the open field, even that they
may bring them to Jehovah, to the door of the tent of meeting, to the priest, and sacrifice them for sacrifices of
peace-offerings to Jehovah.
\v 6 And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of Jehovah at the door of the tent of meeting, and burn the fat for
a sweet savor to Jehovah.
\v 7 And they shall no more sacrifice their sacrifices to the he-goats, after which they play the harlot. This shall be a
statute forever to them throughout their generations.
\p
\v 8 And you shall say to them, Whatsoever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them,
that offers a burnt offering or sacrifice,
\v 9 and brings it not to the door of the tent of meeting, to sacrifice it to Jehovah; that man shall be cut off from his
people.
\p
\v 10 And whatever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, that eats any manner
of blood, I will set my face against that soul that eats blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
\v 11 For the life of the flesh is in the blood; and I have given it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls:
for it is the blood that makes atonement by reason of the life.
\v 12 Therefore I said to the children of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger that sojourneth
among you eat blood.
\v 13 And whatever man there be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, who takes in hunting
any beast or bird that may be eaten; he shall pour out the blood thereof, and cover it with dust.
\p
\v 14 For as to the life of all flesh, the blood thereof is all one
with the life thereof: therefore I said to the children of Israel, You shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh; for
the life of all flesh is the blood thereof: whoever eats it shall be cut off.
\v 15 And every soul that eats that which dieth of itself, or that which is torn of beasts, whether he be home-born or a
sojourner, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even: then shall he be clean.
\v 16 But if he wash them not, nor bathe his flesh, then he shall bear his iniquity.