\c 18
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, I am Jehovah your God.
\v 3 After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein you dwelt, shall you not do: and after the doings of the land of Canaan,
whither I bring you, shall you not do; neither shall you walk in their statutes.
\v 4 Mine ordinances shall you do, and my statutes shall you keep, to walk therein: I am Jehovah your God.
\v 5 You shall therefore keep my statutes, and mine ordinances; which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 6 None of you shall approach to any that are near of kin to him, to uncover
their nakedness: I am Jehovah.
\v 7 The nakedness of your father, even the nakedness of your mother, shall you not uncover: she is your mother; you shall not
uncover her nakedness.
\v 8 The nakedness of your father’s wife shall you not uncover; it is your father’s nakedness.
\v 9 The nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home, or born
abroad, even their nakedness you shall not uncover.
\v 10 The nakedness of your son’s daughter, or of your daughter’s daughter, even their nakedness you shall not uncover: for
theirs is your own nakedness.
\v 11 The nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, begotten of your father, she is your sister, you shall not uncover her
nakedness.
\v 12 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister: she is your father’s near kinswoman.
\v 13 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister: for she is your mother’s near kinswoman.
\v 14 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother, you shall not approach to his wife: she is your aunt.
\v 15 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law: she is your son’s wife; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
\v 16 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife: it is your brother’s nakedness.
\v 17 You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter; you shall not take her son’s daughter, or her
daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness.
\v 18 And you shall not take a wife to her sister, to be a rival
to her, to uncover her nakedness, besides the other in her life-time.
\p
\v 19 And you shall not approach to a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.
\v 20 And you shall not lie carnally with your neighbor’s wife, to defile yourself with her.
\v 21 And you shall not give any of your seed to make them pass through
the fire to Molech; neither shall you profane the name of your God: I am Jehovah.
\v 22 You shall not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.
\v 23 And you shall not lie with any beast to defile yourself therewith; neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie
down thereto: it is confusion.
\p
\v 24 Defile not you yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations are defiled which I cast out from before
you;
\v 25 And the land is defiled: therefore I do visit the iniquity thereof upon it, and the land vomiteth out her inhabitants.
\v 26 You therefore shall keep my statutes and mine ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the
home-born, nor the stranger that sojourneth among you
\v 27 (for all these abominations have the men of the land done, that were before you, and the land is defiled);
\v 28 that the land vomit not you out also, when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
\v 29 For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people.
\v 30 Therefore shall you keep my charge, that you practise not any of these abominable customs, which were practised before you,
and that you defile not yourselves therein: I am Jehovah your God.