\c 20
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Moreover, you shall say to the children of Israel, Whosoever he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that
sojourn in Israel, that gives of his seed to Molech; he shall surely be put to death: the people of the land shall stone him
with stones.
\v 3 I also will set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people; because he has given of his seed
to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name.
\v 4 And if the people at the land do at all hide their eyes from that man, when he gives of his seed to Molech, and put him
not to death;
\v 5 then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all that play the harlot after
him, to play the harlot with Molech, from among their people.
\p
\v 6 And the soul that turns to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards, to play the harlot after them, I
will even set my face against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.
\v 7 Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be you holy; for I am Jehovah your God.
\v 8 And you shall keep my statutes, and do them: I am Jehovah who sanctifieth you.
\v 9 For every one that curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death: he has cursed his father or his mother;
his blood shall be upon him.
\p
\v 10 And the man that committeth adultery with another man’s wife, even he that committeth adultery with his neighbor’s wife,
the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
\v 11 And the man that lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to
death; their blood shall be upon them.
\v 12 And if a man lie with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have wrought confusion; their
blood shall be upon them.
\v 13 And if a man lie with mankind, as with womankind, both of them have committed abomination: they shall surely be put to
death; their blood shall be upon them.
\v 14 And if a man take a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burnt with fire, both he and they; that there be
no wickedness among you.
\v 15 And if a man lie with a beast, he shall surely be put to death: and you shall kill the beast.
\v 16 And if a woman approach to any beast, and lie down thereto, you shall kill the woman, and the beast: they shall surely
be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
\p
\v 17 And if a man shall take his sister, his father’s daughter, or his mother’s daughter, and see her nakedness, and she see
his nakedness; it is a shameful thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people: he has
uncovered his sister’s nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
\v 18 And if a man shall lie with a woman having her sickness, and shall uncover her nakedness; he has made naked her
fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
\v 19 And you shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, nor of your father’s sister; for he has made naked his
near kin: they shall bear their iniquity.
\v 20 And if a man shall lie with his uncle’s wife, he has uncovered his uncle’s nakedness: they shall bear their sin; they
shall die childless.
\v 21 And if a man shall take his brother’s wife, it is impurity: he has uncovered his brother’s nakedness; they shall be
childless.
\p
\v 22 You shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all mine ordinances, and do them; that the land, whither I bring you to
dwell therein, vomit you not out.
\v 23 And you shall not walk in the customs of the nation, which I cast out before you: for they did all these things, and
therefore I abhorred them.
\v 24 But I have said to you, You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with
milk and honey: I am Jehovah your God, who has separated you from the peoples.
\v 25 You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean beast and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the
clean: and you shall not make your souls abominable by beast, or by bird, or by anything wherewith the ground teemeth, which I
have separated from you as unclean.
\v 26 And you shall be holy to me: for I, Jehovah, am holy, and have set you apart from the peoples, that you should be mine.
\p
\v 27 A man also or a woman that has a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone
them with stones; their blood shall be upon them.