\c 21
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Moses, Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them, There shall none defile himself
for the dead among his people;
\v 2 except for his kin, that is near to him, for his mother, and for his father, and for his son, and for his daughter, and
for his brother,
\v 3 and for his sister a virgin, that is near to him, that has had no husband; for her may he defile himself.
\v 4 He shall not defile himself, being a chief man among his people, to profane himself.
\v 5 They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any
cuttings in their flesh.
\v 6 They shall be holy to their God, and not profane the name of their God; for the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, the
bread of their God, they do offer: therefore they shall be holy.
\v 7 They shall not take a woman that is a harlot, or profane; neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband: for
he is holy to his God.
\v 8 You shall sanctify him therefore; for he offers the bread of your God: he shall be holy to thee; for I Jehovah, who
sanctify you, am holy.
\v 9 And the daughter of any priest, if she profane herself by playing the harlot, she profaneth her father: she shall be burnt
with fire.
\p
\v 10 And he that is the high priest among his brethren, upon whose head the anointing oil is poured, and that is consecrated
to put on the garments, shall not let the hair of his head go loose, nor rend his clothes;
\v 11 neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father, or for his mother;
\v 12 neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the anointing oil of his
God is upon him: I am Jehovah.
\v 13 And he shall take a wife in her virginity.
\v 14 A widow, or one divorced, or a profane woman, a harlot, these shall he not take: but a virgin of his own people shall he
take to wife.
\v 15 And he shall not profane his seed among his people: for I am Jehovah who sanctifieth him.
\p
\v 16 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 17 Speak to Aaron, saying, Whosoever he be of your seed throughout their generations that has a blemish, let him not
approach to offer the bread of his God.
\v 18 For whatever man he be that has a blemish, he shall not approach: a blind man, or a lame, or he that has a flat nose,
or anything superfluous,
\v 19 or a man that is broken-footed, or broken-handed,
\v 20 or crook-backed, or a dwarf, or that has a blemish in his eye, or is scurvy, or scabbed, or has his stones broken;
\v 21 no man of the seed of Aaron the priest, that has a blemish, shall come near to offer the offerings of Jehovah made by
fire: he has a blemish; he shall not come near to offer the bread of his God.
\v 22 He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy, and of the holy:
\v 23 only he shall not go in to the veil, nor come near to the altar, because he has a blemish; that he profane not my
sanctuaries: for I am Jehovah who sanctifieth them.
\v 24 So Moses spoke to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel.