\c 22
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, which they
hallow to me, and that they profane not my holy name: I am Jehovah.
\v 3 Say to them, Whosoever he be of all your seed throughout your generations, that approacheth to the holy things, which
the children of Israel hallow to Jehovah, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from before me: I am
Jehovah.
\v 4 What man soever of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or has an issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he be clean.
And whoso touches anything that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goes from him;
\v 5 or whoever touches any creeping thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take uncleanness,
whatever uncleanness he hath;
\v 6 the soul that touches any such shall be unclean until the even, and shall not eat of the holy things, unless he bathe his
flesh in water.
\v 7 And when the sun is down, he shall be clean; and afterward he shall eat of the holy things, because it is his bread.
\v 8 That which dieth of itself, or is torn of beasts, he shall not eat, to defile himself therewith: I am Jehovah.
\v 9 They shall therefore keep my charge, lest they bear sin for it, and die therein, if they profane it: I am Jehovah who
sanctifieth them.
\p
\v 10 There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of the priest’s, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy
thing.
\v 11 But if a priest buy any soul, the purchase of his money, he shall eat of it; and such as are born in his house, they
shall eat of his bread.
\v 12 And if a priest’s daughter be married to a stranger, she shall not eat of the heave-offering of the holy things.
\v 13 But if a priest’s daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have no child, and be returned to her father’s house, as in her
youth, she shall eat of her father’s bread: but there shall no stranger eat thereof.
\v 14 And if a man eat of the holy thing unwittingly, then he shall put the fifth part thereof to it, and shall give to the
priest the holy thing.
\v 15 And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer to Jehovah,
\v 16 and so cause them to bear the iniquity that brings guilt, when they eat their holy things: for I am Jehovah
who sanctifieth them.
\p
\v 17 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 18 Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, Whosoever he be of the house
of Israel, or of the sojourners in Israel, that offers his oblation, whether it be any of their vows, or any of their
freewill-offerings, which they offer to Jehovah for a burnt-offering;
\v 19 that you may be accepted, you shall offer a male without blemish, of the bullocks, of the sheep, or of the goats.
\v 20 But whatever has a blemish, that shall you not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.
\v 21 And whoever offers a sacrifice of peace-offerings to Jehovah to accomplish a vow, or for a freewill-offering, of
the herd or of the flock, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.
\v 22 Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or scabbed, you shall not offer these to Jehovah, nor make an
offering by fire of them upon the altar to Jehovah.
\v 23 Either a bullock or a lamb that has anything superfluous or lacking in his parts, that may you offer for a
freewill-offering; but for a vow it shall not be accepted.
\v 24 That which has its stones bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut, you shall not offer to Jehovah; neither shall you do
thus in your land.
\v 25 Neither from the hand of a foreigner shall you offer the bread of your God of any of these; because their corruption is in
them, there is a blemish in them: they shall not be accepted for you.
\p
\v 26 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 27 When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam; and from the eighth
day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for the oblation of an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\v 28 And whether it be cow or ewe, you shall not kill it and its young both in one day.
\v 29 And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to Jehovah, you shall sacrifice it that you may be accepted.
\v 30 On the same day it shall be eaten; you shall leave none of it until the morning: I am Jehovah.
\v 31 Therefore shall you keep my commandments, and do them: I am Jehovah.
\v 32 And you shall not profane my holy name; but I will be hallowed among the children of Israel: I am Jehovah who halloweth
you,
\v 33 who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am Jehovah.