\c 23
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, The set feasts of Jehovah, which you shall proclaim to be holy
convocations, even these are my set feasts.
\v 3 Six days shall work be done: but on the seventh day is a sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation; you shall do no manner
of work: it is a sabbath to Jehovah in all your dwellings.
\p
\v 4 These are the set feasts of Jehovah, even holy convocations, which you shall proclaim in their appointed season.
\v 5 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, is Jehovah’s passover.
\v 6 And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to Jehovah: seven days you shall eat
unleavened bread.
\v 7 In the first day you shall have a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work.
\v 8 But you shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah seven days: in the seventh day is a holy convocation; you shall do
no servile work.
\p
\v 9 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 10 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you are come into the land which I give to you, and shall
reap the harvest thereof, then you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest:
\v 11 and he shall wave the sheaf before Jehovah, to be accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave
it.
\v 12 And in the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a he-lamb without blemish a youar old for a burnt offering to
Jehovah.
\v 13 And the meal-offering thereof shall be two tenth parts of an ephah
of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to Jehovah for a sweet savor; and the drink-offering thereof
shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin.
\v 14 And you shall eat neither bread, nor parched grain, nor fresh ears, until this selfsame day, until you have brought the
oblation of your God: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
\p
\v 15 And you shall count to you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the
wave-offering; seven sabbaths shall there be complete:
\v 16 even to the morrow after the seventh sabbath shall you number fifty days; and you shall offer a new meal-offering to
Jehovah.
\v 17 You shall bring out of your habitations two wave-loaves of two tenth parts
of an ephah: they shall be of fine flour, they shall be baken with leaven, for first fruits to Jehovah.
\v 18 And you shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a youar old, and one young bullock, and two rams: they
shall be a burnt offering to Jehovah, with their meal-offering, and their drink-offerings, even an offering made by fire, of
a sweet savor to Jehovah.
\v 19 And you shall offer one he-goat for a sin-offering, and two he-lambs a youar old for a sacrifice of peace-offerings.
\v 20 And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first fruits for a wave-offering before Jehovah, with the two lambs:
they shall be holy to Jehovah for the priest.
\v 21 And you shall make proclamation on the selfsame day; there shall be a holy convocation to you; you shall do no servile
work: it is a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
\p
\v 22 And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather
the gleaning of your harvest: you shall leave them for the poor, and for the sojourner: I am Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 23 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 24 Speak to the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest
to you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation.
\v 25 You shall do no servile work; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\p
\v 26 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 27 Howbeit on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a holy convocation to you, and you
shall afflict your souls; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\v 28 And you shall do no manner of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement for you before
Jehovah your God.
\v 29 For whatever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day; he shall be cut off from his people.
\v 30 And whatever soul it be that does any manner of work in that same day, that soul will I destroy from among his people.
\v 31 You shall do no manner of work: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
\v 32 It shall be to you a sabbath of solemn rest, and you shall afflict your souls: in the ninth day of the month at even,
from even to even, shall you keep your sabbath.
\p
\v 33 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 34 Speak to the children of Israel, saying, On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tabernacles for
seven days to Jehovah.
\v 35 On the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work.
\v 36 Seven days you shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah: on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation to you;
and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Jehovah: it is a solemn assembly; you shall do no servile work.
\p
\v 37 These are the set feasts of Jehovah, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire
to Jehovah, a burnt-offering, and a meal-offering, a sacrifice, and drink-offerings, each on its own day;
\v 38 besides the sabbaths of Jehovah, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your
freewill-offerings, which you give to Jehovah.
\p
\v 39 Howbeit on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruits of the land, you shall keep the
feast of Jehovah seven days: on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest.
\v 40 And you shall take you on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm-trees, and boughs of thick trees, and
willows of the brook; and you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God seven days.
\v 41 And you shall keep it a feast to Jehovah seven days in the youar: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations;
you shall keep it in the seventh month.
\v 42 You shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are home-born in Israel shall dwell in booths;
\v 43 that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land
of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God.
\v 44 And Moses declared to the children of Israel the set feasts of Jehovah.