\c 24
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn
continually.
\v 3 Without the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, shall Aaron keep it in order from evening to morning before
Jehovah continually: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations.
\v 4 He shall keep in order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before Jehovah continually.
\p
\v 5 And you shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes thereof: two tenth parts
of an ephah shall be in one cake.
\v 6 And you shall set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before Jehovah.
\v 7 And you shall put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by
fire to Jehovah.
\v 8 Every sabbath day he shall set it in order before Jehovah continually; it is on the behalf of the children of Israel, an
everlasting covenant.
\v 9 And it shall be for Aaron and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy to him of the
offerings of Jehovah made by fire by a perpetual statute.
\p
\v 10 And the son of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of
the Israelitish woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp:
\v 11 and the son of the Israelitish woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him to Moses. And his mother’s
name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
\v 12 And they put him in ward, that it might be declared to them at the mouth of Jehovah.
\p
\v 13 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 14 Bring forth him that has cursed without the camp; and let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all
the congregation stone him.
\v 15 And you shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, Whosoever curses his God shall bear his sin.
\v 16 And he that blasphemeth the name of Jehovah, he shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone
him: as well the sojourner, as the home-born, when he blasphemeth the name
of Jehovah, shall be put to death.
\v 17 And he that smiteth any man mortally shall surely be put to death.
\v 18 And he that smiteth a beast mortally shall make it good, life for life.
\v 19 And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbor; as he has done, so shall it be done to him:
\v 20 breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be rendered to him.
\v 21 And he that kills a beast shall make it good: and he that kills a man shall be put to death.
\v 22 You shall have one manner of law, as well for the sojourner, as for the home-born: for I am Jehovah your God.
\v 23 And Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they brought forth him that had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him
with stones. And the children of Israel did as Jehovah commanded Moses.