\c 25
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses in mount Sinai, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you come into the land which I give you, then shall the land
keep a sabbath to Jehovah.
\v 3 Six years you shall sow your field, and six years you shall prune your vineyard, and gather in the fruits thereof;
\v 4 but in the seventh year shall be a sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a sabbath to Jehovah: you shall neither sow your
field, nor prune your vineyard.
\v 5 That which grows of itself of your harvest you shall not reap, and the grapes of your undressed vine you shall not
gather: it shall be a year of solemn rest for the land.
\v 6 And the sabbath of the land shall be for food for you; for thee, and for your servant and for your maid, and for your hired
servant and for your stranger, who sojourn with thee.
\v 7 And for your cattle, and for the beasts that are in your land, shall all the increase thereof be for food.
\p
\v 8 And you shall number seven sabbaths of years to you, seven times seven years; and there shall be to you the days of
seven sabbaths of years, even forty and nine years.
\v 9 Then shall you send abroad the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month; in the day of atonement shall you send
abroad the trumpet throughout all your land.
\v 10 And you shall hallow the fifties youar, and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all the inhabitants thereof: it
shall be a jubilee to you; and you shall return every man to his possession, and you shall return every man to his family.
\v 11 A jubilee shall that fifties youar be to you: you shall not sow, neither reap that which grows of itself in it, nor
gather the grapes in it of the undressed vines.
\v 12 For it is a jubilee; it shall be holy to you: you shall eat the increase thereof out of the field.
\p
\v 13 In this youar of jubilee you shall return every man to his possession.
\v 14 And if you sell anything to your neighbor, or buy of your neighbor’s hand, you shall not wrong one another.
\v 15 According to the number of years after the jubilee you shall buy of your neighbor,
and according to the number of years of the crops he shall sell to thee.
\v 16 According to the multitude of the years you shall increase the price thereof, and according to the fewness of the years
you shall diminish the price of it; for the number of the crops does he sell to thee.
\v 17 And you shall not wrong one another; but you shall fear your God: for I am Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 18 Wherefore you shall do my statutes, and keep mine ordinances and do them; and you shall dwell in the land in safety.
\v 19 And the land shall yield its fruit, and you shall eat your fill, and dwell therein in safety.
\v 20 And if you shall say, What shall we eat the seventh youar? behold, we shall not sow, nor gather in our increase;
\v 21 then I will command my blessing upon you in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth fruit for the three years.
\v 22 And you shall sow the eighth youar, and eat of the fruits, the old store; until the ninth youar, until its fruits come in,
you shall eat the old store.
\p
\v 23 And the land shall not be sold in perpetuity; for the land is mine: for you are strangers and sojourners with me.
\v 24 And in all the land of your possession you shall grant a redemption for the land.
\v 25 If your brother be waxed poor, and sell some of his possession, then shall his kinsman that is next to him come, and
shall redeem that which his brother has sold.
\v 26 And if a man have no one to redeem it, and he be waxed rich and find sufficient to redeem it;
\v 27 then let him reckon the years of the sale thereof, and restore the overplus to the man to whom he sold it; and he shall
return to his possession.
\v 28 But if he be not able to get it back for himself, then that which he has sold shall remain in the hand of him that has
bought it until the year of jubilee: and in the jubilee it shall go out, and he shall return to his possession.
\p
\v 29 And if a man sell a dwelling-house in a walled city, then he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold; for a
full year shall he have the right of redemption.
\v 30 And if it be not redeemed within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall be made sure
in perpetuity to him that bought it, throughout his generations: it shall not go out in the jubilee.
\v 31 But the houses of the villages which have no wall round about them shall be reckoned with the fields of the country: they
may be redeemed, and they shall go out in the jubilee.
\v 32 Nevertheless the cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities of their possession, may the Levites redeem at any time.
\v 33 And if one of the Levites redeem, then the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, shall go out in the
jubilee; for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.
\v 34 But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession.
\p
\v 35 And if your brother be waxed poor, and his hand fail with thee; then you shall uphold him:
as a stranger and a sojourner shall he live with thee.
\v 36 Take you no interest of him or increase, but fear your God; that your brother may live with thee.
\v 37 You shall not give him your money upon interest, nor give him your food for increase.
\v 38 I am Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan,
and to be your God.
\p
\v 39 And if your brother be waxed poor with thee, and sell himself to thee; you shall not make him to serve as a
bond-servant.
\v 40 As a hired servant, and as a sojourner, he shall be with you; he shall serve with you to the year of jubilee:
\v 41 then shall he go out from thee, he and his children with him, and shall return to his own family, and to the
possession of his fathers shall he return.
\v 42 For they are my servants, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: they shall not be sold as bondmen.
\v 43 You shall not rule over him with rigor, but shall fear your God.
\v 44 And as for your bondmen, and your bondmaids, whom you shall have; of the nations that are round about you, of them shall
you buy bondmen and bondmaids.
\v 45 Moreover of the children of the strangers that sojourn among you, of them shall you buy, and of their families that are
with you, which they have begotten in your land: and they shall be your possession.
\v 46 And you shall make them an inheritance for your children after you, to hold for a possession; of them shall you take your
bondmen for ever: but over your brethren the children of Israel you shall not rule, one over another, with rigor.
\p
\v 47 And if a stranger or sojourner with you be waxed rich, and your brother be waxed poor beside him, and sell himself to
the stranger or sojourner with thee, or to the stock of the stranger’s family;
\v 48 after that he is sold he may be redeemed: one of his brethren may redeem him;
\v 49 or his uncle, or his uncle’s son, may redeem him, or any that is near of kin to him of his family may redeem him; or if
he be waxed rich, he may redeem himself.
\v 50 And he shall reckon with him that bought him from the year that he sold himself to him to the year of jubilee: and the
price of his sale shall be according to the number of years; according to the time of a hired servant shall he be with him.
\v 51 If there be yet many years, according to them he shall give back the price of his redemption out of the money that he
was bought for.
\v 52 And if there remain but few years to the year of jubilee, then he shall reckon with him; according to his years shall
he give back the price of his redemption.
\v 53 As a servant hired year by year shall he be with him: he shall not rule with rigor over him in your sight.
\v 54 And if he be not redeemed by these means, then he shall go out in the year of jubilee, he, and his children
with him.
\v 55 For to me the children of Israel are servants; they are my servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: I am
Jehovah your God.