\c 26
\p
\v 1 You shall make you no idols, neither shall you rear you up a graven image, or a pillar, neither shall you place any figured
stone in your land, to bow down to it: for I am Jehovah your God.
\v 2 You shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 3 If you walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;
\v 4 then I will give your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield
their fruit.
\v 5 And your threshing shall reach to the vintage, and the vintage shall reach to the sowing time; and you shall eat your
bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.
\v 6 And I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: and I will cause evil beasts to
cease out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land.
\v 7 And you shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword.
\v 8 And five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand; and your enemies shall fall before
you by the sword.
\v 9 And I will have respect to you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and will establish my covenant with you.
\v 10 And you shall eat old store long kept, and you shall bring forth the old because of the new.
\v 11 And I will set my tabernacle among you: and my soul shall not abhor you.
\v 12 And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and you shall be my people.
\v 13 I am Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that you should not be their bondmen; and I have
broken the bars of your yoke, and made you go upright.
\p
\v 14 But if you will not listen to me, and will not do all these commandments;
\v 15 and if you shall reject my statutes, and if your soul abhor mine ordinances, so that you will not do all my commandments,
but break my covenant;
\v 16 I also will do this to you: I will appoint terror over you, even consumption and fever, that shall consume the eyes,
and make the soul to pine away; and you shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.
\v 17 And I will set my face against you, and you shall be struck before your enemies: they that hate you shall rule over you;
and you shall flee when none pursueth you.
\v 18 And if you will not yout for these things listen to me, then I will chastise you seven times more for your sins.
\v 19 And I will break the pride of your power: and I will make your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass;
\v 20 and your strength shall be spent in vain; for your land shall not yield its increase, neither shall the trees of the land
yield their fruit.
\p
\v 21 And if you walk contrary to me, and will not listen to me, I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according
to your sins.
\v 22 And I will send the beast of the field among you, which shall rob you of your children, and destroy your cattle, and make
you few in number; and your ways shall become desolate.
\p
\v 23 And if by these things you will not be reformed to me, but will walk contrary to me;
\v 24 then will I also walk contrary to you; and I will strike you, even I, seven times for your sins.
\v 25 And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall execute the vengeance of the covenant; and you shall be gathered together
within your cities: and I will send the pestilence among you; and you shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
\v 26 When I break your staff of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver your bread again by
weight: and you shall eat, and not be satisfied.
\p
\v 27 And if you will not for all this listen to me, but walk contrary to me;
\v 28 then I will walk contrary to you in wrath; and I also will chastise you seven times for your sins.
\v 29 And you shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall you eat.
\v 30 And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your sun-images, and cast your dead bodies upon the bodies of your
idols; and my soul shall abhor you.
\v 31 And I will make your cities a waste, and will bring your sanctuaries to desolation, and I will not smell the savor of
your sweet odors.
\v 32 And I will bring the land into desolation; and your enemies that dwell therein shall be astonished at it.
\v 33 And you will I scatter among the nations, and I will draw out the sword after you: and your land shall be a desolation,
and your cities shall be a waste.
\p
\v 34 Then shall the land enjoy its sabbaths, as long as it lies desolate, and you are in your enemies’ land; even then shall
the land rest, and enjoy its sabbaths.
\v 35 As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, even the rest which it had not in your sabbaths, when you lived upon it.
\v 36 And as for them that are left of you, I will send a faintness into their heart in the lands of their enemies: and the
sound of a driven leaf shall chase them; and they shall flee, as one fleeth from the sword; and they shall fall when none
pursueth.
\v 37 And they shall stumble one upon another, as it were before the sword, when none pursueth: and you shall have no power to
stand before your enemies.
\v 38 And you shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up.
\v 39 And they that are left of you shall pine away in their iniquity in your enemies’ lands; and also in the iniquities of
their fathers shall they pine away with them.
\p
\v 40 And they shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against
me, and also that, because they walked contrary to me,
\v 41 I also walked contrary to them, and brought them into the land of their enemies: if then their uncircumcised heart be
humbled, and they then accept of the punishment of their iniquity;
\v 42 then will I remember my covenant with Jacob; and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham will I
remember; and I will remember the land.
\v 43 The land also shall be left by them, and shall enjoy its sabbaths, while it lies desolate without them: and they shall
accept of the punishment of their iniquity; because, even because they rejected mine ordinances, and their soul abhorred my
statutes.
\v 44 And yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, neither will I abhor them, to
destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them; for I am Jehovah their God;
\v 45 but I will for their sakes remember the covenant of their ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt in the
sight of the nations, that I might be their God: I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 46 These are the statutes and ordinances and laws, which Jehovah made between him and the children of Israel in mount Sinai
by Moses.