\c 27
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When a man shall accomplish a vow, the persons shall be for Jehovah
by your estimation.
\v 3 And your estimation shall be of the male from twenty years old even to sixty years old, even your estimation shall be
fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
\v 4 And if it be a female, then your estimation shall be thirty shekels.
\v 5 And if it be from five years old even to twenty years old, then your estimation shall be of the male twenty shekels, and
for the female ten shekels.
\v 6 And if it be from a month old even to five years old, then your estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silver,
and for the female your estimation shall be three shekels of silver.
\v 7 And if it be from sixty years old and upward; if it be a male, then your estimation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the
female ten shekels.
\v 8 But if he be poorer than your estimation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according
to the ability of him that vowed shall the priest value him.
\p
\v 9 And if it be a beast, whereof men offer an oblation to Jehovah, all that any man gives of such to Jehovah shall be
holy.
\v 10 He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change beast for
beast, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy.
\v 11 And if it be any unclean beast, of which they do not offer an oblation to Jehovah, then he shall set the beast before
the priest;
\v 12 and the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: as you the priest valuest it, so shall it be.
\v 13 But if he will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part thereof to your estimation.
\p
\v 14 And when a man shall sanctify his house to be holy to Jehovah, then the priest shall estimate it, whether it be good or
bad: as the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand.
\v 15 And if he that sanctified it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your estimation to
it, and it shall be his.
\p
\v 16 And if a man shall sanctify to Jehovah part of the field of his possession, then your estimation shall be according to
the sowing thereof: the sowing of a homer of barley shall be
valued at fifty shekels of silver.
\v 17 If he sanctify his field from the year of jubilee, according to your estimation it shall stand.
\v 18 But if he sanctify his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years
that remain to the year of jubilee; and an abatement shall be made from your estimation.
\v 19 And if he that sanctified the field will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your
estimation to it, and it shall be assured to him.
\v 20 And if he will not redeem the field, or if he have sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more:
\v 21 but the field, when it goes out in the jubilee, shall be holy to Jehovah, as a field devoted; the possession thereof
shall be the priest’s.
\v 22 And if he sanctify to Jehovah a field which he has bought, which is not of the field of his possession;
\v 23 then the priest shall reckon to him the worth of your estimation to the year of jubilee: and he shall give your
estimation in that day, as a holy thing to Jehovah.
\v 24 In the year of jubilee the field shall return to him of whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the
land belongeth.
\v 25 And all your estimations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.
\p
\v 26 Only the firstling among beasts, which is made a firstling to Jehovah, no man shall sanctify it; whether it be ox or
sheep, it is Jehovah’s.
\v 27 And if it be of an unclean beast, then he shall ransom it according to your estimation, and shall add to it the fifth
part thereof: or if it be not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your estimation.
\p
\v 28 Notwithstanding, no devoted thing, that a man shall devote to Jehovah of all that he hath, whether of man or beast, or
of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy to Jehovah.
\v 29 No one devoted, that shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death.
\p
\v 30 And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is Jehovah’s: it is holy
to Jehovah.
\v 31 And if a man will redeem anything of his tithe, he shall add to it the fifth part thereof.
\v 32 And all the tithe of the herd or the flock, whatever passes under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to Jehovah.
\v 33 He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: and if he change it at all, then both it and
that for which it is changed shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.
\p
\v 34 These are the commandments, which Jehovah commanded Moses for the children of Israel in mount Sinai.