\c 1
\p
\v 1 You all know me as the chief Elder. I am writing this letter to all of you  in your congregation. God has chosen you, and I love you truly! Not only do I myself love you, but all those who know and accept the true message that Jesus taught also love you!
\v 2 All of us believe God's true message. It is in our inner beings and we will continue to believe it forever!
\v 3 God the Father and Jesus Christ, who is his Son, will continue to act kindly and mercifully toward us because they love us. They will enable us to have inner peace, because we believe their true message.
\s 2 John 4
\sr I am happy that some of your members are living just like God commanded us to live.
\p
\v 4 I am very happy because I learned about some of you  with God's true message. You are doing that just like our Father God commanded us to do.
\s 2 John 5-6
\sr Continue to love each other just like God commanded us to love when we first began to believe his true message.
\p
\v 5 And now, dear congregation  to believe his true message. What he commanded is that we love each other.
\v 6 And we really to believe God's true message.
\s 2 John 7-11
\sr Be on your guard against teachers of false doctrine, so that you will receive your complete reward of being with God eternally. Do not welcome or encourage any of these false teachers in any way.
\p
\v 7 Many people who deceive others have left your congregation and have now gone out among other people who are in your area  that Jesus Christ became human. They are the very ones who deceive people and oppose what we teach about Christ.
\v 8 So be sure that you do not let those teachers deceive you! If you let them deceive you, you will lose the reward which we, together with you, have been working for, and you will not receive the complete reward of being eternally united to God!
\v 9 Those who change what Christ taught and do not continue to believe what he taught do not havea relationship with God. But those who continue to believe what Christ taught have a close relationship with both God, our Father, and with his Son.
\v 10 So when anyone comes to you who teaches something different from what Christ taught, do not welcome him into your homes! Do not encourage him by wishing him well in any way!
\v 11 I say that because if you treat people like that as you would treat a fellow believer, God will punish you along with them for the evil that they do.
\s 2 John 12-13
\sr Instead of writing much more to you, I expect to come and talk directly with you. The members of your sister congregation greet you.
\p
\v 12 Even though I have much more that I want to tell you, I have decided not to say it in a letter . Instead, I expect to be with you soon and talk directly with you. Then we can be completely joyful together.
\v 13 Your fellow believers here .
