\c 2
\s Revelation 2:1-7
\sr Christ exhorts the congregation at Ephesus to repent and to begin again to love him and each other.
\p
\v 1  He also said to me, "Write  this message to the leader  of the congregation in Ephesus  city: 'I am saying these things  to you: I am the one who firmly holds the seven stars in my right hand. I am the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands. 
\v 2 I know what you do: You labor  for me intensely, and you continue  to serve me steadfastly. I know that you cannot tolerate people  who teach what is evil , and that you investigated people who falsely claimed that they are apostles, and you found that they were lying. 
\v 3  I know also that you continue  to serve me steadfastly. Even when people caused you to suffer, you continued to serve  me because  you believe in me, and you have not become too tired  to keep on serving me. 
\v 4 Nevertheless, I have  this complaint against you: You no longer love  each other and me as you did when you first  trusted in me. 
\v 5  So, I tell you to remember how you used to love  me and each other, and to  realize that you no longer love as you did. I tell you to turn away from your sin  of not loving me and each other, and start loving  each other and me again as you did at first. If you do not turn away from your sinful behavior, I will come  to judge you and cause your group to cease to be a Christian congregation . 
\v 6 But you have the following good quality: Those Nicolaitans  teach you believers that you can worship idols and that you may act immorally. However, you hate such teaching, just like I also hate it. 
\v 7 Everyone who wants to understand my message  from the tree  that gives eternal life, the tree that is in God's garden.'"
\s Revelation 2:8-11
\sr Christ exhorts the congregation at Smyrna not to fear what they will suffer, but to trust in him, even if they must die because they trust in him.
\p
\v 8 "Write  this message to the leader  of the congregation in Smyrna  city: 'I am saying these things  to you. I am the one who began  all things and  who causes all things to end. I am the one who died and became alive  again. 
\v 9 I know that you suffer  because of what unbelievers do to you, and that you lack  material possessions. But  I also know that you are  spiritually  you. They say that they are Jews, but I do not  consider that they are Jews. I consider that they  belong to the assembly that Satan  controls! 
\v 10 Do not be afraid of any of the things that you are about to suffer. The truth is that the devil is about to  put some of you in prison, to tempt you  to deny that you believe in me. For a short period of time you will suffer  because of what people will do to you  people reward a victorious athlete by putting a wreath  on his head. 
\v 11 Everyone who wants to understand  must listen carefully to the message that  God's Spirit speaks to the congregations. After those who conquer  Satan die, they will live with God. They will never suffer again, even though many others will suffer as though they died a second time.'"
\s Revelation 2:12-17
\sr Christ exhorts the congregation at Pergamum to stop listening to what the Nicolaitans teach.
\p
\v 12 "Write  this message to the leader  of the congregation in Pergamum  city: 'I am saying these things  to you. I am the one who has the sharp two-edged sword. 
\v 13 I know where you live: It is where Satan controls  in your city, a city where  people habitually obey Satan. 
\v 14 Nevertheless, I have this  complaint against you: You permit some of your  members to teach things like Balaam  taught long ago. He taught Balak to persuade the Israelite people to sin. Specifically, he taught them to eat food that had been offered to idols, and to practice sexual immorality. 
\v 15 In that way, you are also permitting some of  your members to practice what the Nicolaitans teach, which is like what Balaam taught. 
\v 16 So you must stop doing  this. If  you do not stop doing  it, I will come to you suddenly. With the words that I will speak I will fight against those  who believe this false teaching . 
\v 17 Everyone who wants to understand  hidden. I will also give them a white stone on which  I will engrave a new name, a name that no one but the ones who receive it will know.'"
\s Revelation 2:18-29
\sr Christ rebukes the congregation at Thyatira for tolerating a teacher who encourages sexual immorality and eating food offered to idols. He warns those who participate in these things that he will punish them unless they repent, and he exhorts the rest of the members to remain loyal to him.
\p
\v 18 "Write  this message to the leader  like fine brass. 
\v 19 I know that you love  me and each other, and that you trust  in me. I know that you serve  others and that you steadfastly endure  a lot of difficulties. I know that you are doing these things more now than  you have done them in the past. 
\v 20 Nevertheless, I have this  complaint against you: You tolerate that woman  among your members who is like , but by what she teaches she is deceiving my servants. She is urging them to practice sexual immorality and to eat food that they have offered to idols. 
\v 21 Although I gave her time to turn away from  her sexual immorality and pagan practices, she did not want to stop  doing them. 
\v 22 Take notice  that as a result, I will cause her to become very ill  to suffer greatly, if they do not stop  doing what she does. 
\v 23 Somehave become like her children by acceptingwhat she teaches . I will reward each of you according to what you have done. 
\v 24 But I have something good to say about the rest  of you believers in Thyatira. It is good that you do not accept that  false teaching. It is good that you reject what those  teachers call their 'secret  practices,' practices that Satan  inspired . I will not burden you with any other commands  than that which you already have. 
\v 25 Just keep  believing firmly in me, and obey me until I come. 
\v 26 As for those who conquer  Satan and who  keep on doing until they die what I command, I will give them my authority, just like I myself received it from my Father. They will exercise that authority over the nations  that rebel against God. 
\v 27 They will exercise authority over them  severely as if they were striking them . 
\v 28 I will also give to  everyone who conquers Satan a share in the glory like the morning star  has . 
\v 29 Everyone who wants to understand  must listen carefully to the message that  God's Spirit speaks to the congregations.'"
