\c 3
\s Revelation 3:1-6
\sr Christ exhorts the congregation at Sardis to wake up and repent. But the members who are worthy will live with him.
\p
\v 1 "Write this message to the leader .
\v 2 Become aware of your spiritual need as though you were awaking from sleep . You must do this because I know that my God considers that nothing that you do is satisfactory.
\v 3 So then, keep remembering God's message, what you accepted when you heard it. Obey it continually, and turn away from your sinful behavior. If you do not become aware of your spiritual need and turn away from your . You will never know at what time I will come to judge you.
\v 4 Nevertheless, there in Sardis you have a few members who have not been doing what is wrong. It is as though they have not soiled their garments , like people who are dressed in pure white clothing.
\v 5 Everyone who conquers Satan I will dress in these same white garments  belong to me.
\v 6 Everyone who wants to understand  must listen carefully to the message that God's Spirit speaks to the congregations.'"
\s Revelation 3:7-13
\sr Christ exhorts the congregation at Philadelphia to continue to obey his word and to be faithful; he promises that some Jews will acknowledge that he loves the congregation, and he also promises that he will keep the congregation from spiritual harm during the period of testing.
\p
\v 7 "Write this message to the leader  to allow people to enter the ancient city of Jerusalem, so I have the authority to allow people to enter my kingdom. I am the one who opens doors so that no one can close them, and who closes doors so that no one can open them.
\v 8 I know everything you have done. Be aware that I have opened before you a door that no one can close. I know that although you do not have many believers .
\v 9 I am aware that some of your people meet together with those who follow Satan. They claim to be Jews, but I know that they are not true Jews. They are lying. I will cause them to come to you and to bow down humbly at your feet and to acknowledge that I love you.
\p
\v 10 Because you have paid attention to the message to endure patiently when you suffered, I will keep you safe from those who will try to harm you spiritually during the period that is about to come. At that time God will cause rebellious people on the earth to suffer, in order that I can determine whether they will turn away from their sins or not.
\v 11 I am coming soon. So continue to hold fast to the message that you have received, in order that no one may cause you to lose the reward that God has reserved for you.
\v 12 I will make everyone who conquers Satan secure. They will be firm like  the pillars in the temple of my God, and they will remain there forever. I will mark them with the name of my God, showing that they belong to him. I will also mark them with the name of the city of my God, showing that they will live there. That city is the New Jerusalem, the city that will descend out of heaven from my God. I will also mark them with my new name, showing that they belong to me.
\v 13 Everyone who wants to understand  must listen carefully to the message that God's Spirit speaks to the congregations.'"
\s Revelation 3:14-22
\sr Christ exhorts the congregation at Laodicea to repent of their neglect of fellowship with him and of their failure to accept his provision for their spiritual needs. He waits to restore fellowship with any member of the congregation who will respond to his call.
\p
\v 14 "Write this message to the leader . I am the one who testifies about God reliably and accurately. I am the one by whom God created all things.
\v 15 I know everything that you have done: You neither deny that you trust in me nor love. You are like water that is neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were either cold or hot!
\v 16 Because you are neither enthusiastic about me nor concerned about your lack of spiritual growth , as if I were spitting lukewarm water out of my mouth.
\v 17 You are saying, 'Because we have all that we need spiritually, we are like rich people who have acquired a lot of wealth. We lack nothing!' But you do not realize that you are lacking in so many ways spiritually that you are like  people who are very wretched and pitiful, poor, blind, and naked.
\v 18 I advise you to obtain from me all that you need spiritually, as though you were buying from me gold that has been refined by fire  you were buying from me eye salve in order to anoint your eyes in order that you might see.
\v 19 Since I rebuke and correct all those whom I affectionately love, earnestly turn away from your sinful behavior.
\v 20 Be aware that I call each one of you to respond to me as though .
\v 21 I will permit everyone who conquers Satan to sit and rule with me on my throne, just like I conquered Satan and now sit and rule with my Father on his throne.
\v 22 Everyone who wants to understand  must listen carefully to the message that God's Spirit speaks to the congregations.'"
