\c 6
\s Revelation 6:1-8
\sr When the Lamb opened each of the first four seals of the scroll, each of the four living creatures called forth a mounted horseman who brought judgment to people on the earth.
\p
\v 1 I saw that  Jesus, the one who is like a lamb, opened the first of the seven seals  of the scroll. Then I heard one of the four living  creatures say in a voice  as loud as  thunder, "Come!" 
\v 2 Then I saw a white horse  come out. The one who sat on it had a bow  and arrows. God gave him a crown  to show that he was the king. Then the one who conquers  people went out to continue to conquer  people. 
\v 3 When the  one who was like a lamb opened the second seal, I heard the second living  creature say, "Come!" 
\v 4 Then a red horse came out. The one sitting on it was allowed  a large sword. 
\v 5 When  the one who is like a lamb opened the third seal, I heard the third living  creature say, "Come!" This time, I saw a black horse  come out. The one who sat on it had a pair of balance scales in his hand. 
\v 6 I heard a voice  that sounded like  it was coming from among the four living  creatures. It was saying to the horseman!" 
\v 7 When the  one who is like a lamb opened the fourth seal, I heard the fourth living  creature say, "Come!" 
\v 8 This time I saw a pale horse  come out. The one who sat on it is named 'The one who causes death , by means of  their causing them to become sick from epidemics, and by means of  their causing wild animals  to attack them.
\s Revelation 6:9-11
\sr When the Lamb opened the fifth seal, the souls of dead believers appealed to God to judge those who killed them, but God told them to rest a bit longer.
\p
\v 9 When the  one who is like a lamb opened the fifth seal, I saw under  because of  their believing God's message, and because they told others  the message about Jesus. 
\v 10 They spoke loudly  to God saying, "Sovereign?" 
\v 11  God gave to each of them a long white robe, and  he told them to rest a little longer until  people killed all the believers who served  the Lord with them. They were believers whom  God wanted to die in just the same way that these others had been killed.
\s Revelation 6:12-17
\sr When the Lamb opened the sixth seal of the scroll, the upheaval in the sky and on the earth caused all the rebellious people on earth to hide because they knew God's judgment time had come.
\p
\v 12 I saw that when  the one who is like a lamb opened the sixth seal, the earth shook violently. The sun became as black as cloth made of  black wool like blood. 
\v 13 The stars fell to the earth  in great numbers, just . 
\v 14 The sky split open and  rolled up on either side just  like an  old scroll rolls up  when it is split in two. Every mountain and island moved out of its place. 
\v 15  As a result, all the rebellious people of the earth, including kings, high-ranking people, generals, the rich people, the powerful people, along with everybody else, both slave and free, hid themselves in caves and between the mountain rocks. 
\v 16 They shouted to the mountains and to the rocks, "Fall on us! 
\v 17 This is the great"
