\c 10
\s Revelation 10:1-7
\sr John saw a mighty angel coming down out of heaven and holding a small open scroll. When the angel shouted, the thunders responded, but a voice from heaven prohibited John from recording what they said. The angel affirmed that the living Creator of the universe would no longer delay in completing his purpose for his creation.
\p
\v 1  In the vision I saw another mighty angel that was coming down out of heaven. A cloud  surrounded him. There was a rainbow over his head. His face  shone  like the sun. His legs looked like pillars of fire. 
\v 2 He had in his hand a small scroll that was open. He set his right foot on the ocean and his left foot on the land. 
\v 3 He shouted something with a loud voice, a voice like the roar of a lion. When he shouted this, it thundered seven  times, speaking  words that I could understand. 
\v 4 When it thundered  like that, I was about to write  the words that I heard, but a voice from heaven said to me, "Keep secret what the thunder said! Do not write it down!" 
\v 5 Then the angel whom I had seen standing on the ocean and the land raised his right hand toward heaven, 
\v 6 and he asked the one who lives forever, the one who created heaven and everything that is in it, who created the earth and everything that is in it, and  who created the ocean and everything that is in it, to affirm that what he said was true. He said that he would surely no longer delay  what he had planned. 
\v 7 He said that when the time  came for the seventh angel to blow his trumpet, he would complete God's secret plan, just like he announced  long ago to his servants, the prophets.
\s Revelation 10:8-11
\sr The heavenly voice told John to take the open scroll from the angel and eat it. When he had eaten it, he was commanded by God to prophesy again about all people.
\p
\v 8 The one whose voice I had heard from heaven spoke to me again. He said, "Go and take the open scroll from the hand of the angel who is standing on the ocean and on the land." 
\v 9 So I went to the angel and asked him to give me the little scroll. He said to me, "Take it and eat it. In your mouth it will  taste sweet like honey, but it will make your stomach bitter." 
\v 10 I took the little scroll from the angel's hand and ate it. In my mouth it  tasted sweet like honey, but when I had eaten it, it made my stomach bitter. 
\v 11 The one whose  voice spoke from heaven said to me, "You must prophesy again, and many kings."
