\c 11
\s Revelation 11:1-14
\sr Christ told John to count his worshipers from the nations, and he appointed two witnesses to prophesy to the nations for a limited time. When they finished witnessing, the beast from the underworld killed them, causing the nations to enjoy temporary victory. God resurrected his witnesses, took them to heaven, and punished the nations. Survivors feared and acknowledged God as awesome.
\p
\v 1  An angel gave to me a reed similar to a measuring stick. He said  to me,  "Christ says this: 'Go to the temple  where people worship God, measure it and the altar  in it, and count the people who worship there. 
\v 2 But do not measure the courtyard outside  of the temple  to  the non-Jewish  people. As a result, they will trample  Jerusalem city for forty-two months. 
\v 3 I will appoint my two witnesses. They will proclaim what I reveal to them for one thousand two hundred and sixty days. They will wear  rough clothes made from goat's hair  to show that they are sad about people's sin.'" 
\v 4 Those  witnesses are the ones that are represented by the two olive trees and the two lampstands that are in the presence of the Lord  who rules the earth . 
\v 5 If enemies try to harm those  witnesses, fire will come from the mouths of the witnesses and destroy them. If people want to harm them, the two witnesses will certainly kill them similarly. 
\v 6 Those  witnesses will have authority over the sky in order to keep rain from falling during the time that they are proclaiming what God reveals to them. They also will have authority to cause water  everywhere to become  red like  blood, and  authority to send down to the earth all kinds of plagues. They will do this as often as they want to. 
\v 7 When they have finished proclaiming  to people the message from God, the beast that comes up from the underworld will attack them, overcome them, and will kill them. 
\v 8 The dead bodies of the  two witnesses will lie in the street of the great city where their Lord was crucified, the city that is symbolically named Sodom or Egypt  because its people are very evil, like the people who lived in Sodom and Egypt. 
\v 9 Individuals of many people-groups, tribes, language  groups , and nations will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days. But they will not allow  anyone to bury their bodies. 
\v 10 When the  rebellious people who live on the earth  see that the witnesses are dead, they will rejoice and celebrate. They will send gifts to each other, because these two prophets had  sent plagues which tormented the  rebellious people on the earth. 
\v 11 But after three and a half days, God will cause them to breathe again and live. They will stand up, and the people who see them will be terrified. 
\v 12 The  two witnesses will hear a loud voice from heaven saying to them: "Come up here!" Then they will go up into heaven in a cloud. Their enemies will see them  as they ascend. 
\v 13 At that same time there will be a great earthquake, as a result of which a tenth of  the buildings in  the city will collapse, and seven thousand people will die. The rest of the people will be afraid and  acknowledge that the God  who rules in heaven is awesome.
\p
\v 14 That will be the second terrible event. Be aware that the third tragic event will happen soon.
\s Revelation 11:15-19
\sr When the seventh angel sounded his trumpet, voices from heaven declared that the Lord God and his Messiah now govern all people, and the elders declared that the time had come for God's final judgment. With the heavenly sanctuary open, lightning flashed, thunder reverberated, the earth shook, and large hail fell.
\p
\v 15 Then the seventh angel blew  his trumpet. Voices in heaven shouted loudly, "Our Lord  God and the Messiah  whom he has appointed can now govern  all the people in  the world, and they will continue to rule those people forever!" 
\v 16 The twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones in God's presence prostrated themselves and worshipped him. 
\v 17 They said:
\q1 Lord God, you are the Almighty One!
\q1 You are the one who exists now!
\q1 You are the one who has always existed!
\q1 We thank you that you have defeated with your power 
\q1 everyone who has rebelled against you, 
\q1 and you now rule over all the people in the world.
\q1
\v 18 The unbelieving people of  the nations were angrily raging at you. 
\q1 As a result you have become very angry with them.
\q1 You have decided that this is the appropriate time for you to judge all the dead people.
\q1 You have also decided that it is the time for you to reward all your servants, 
\q1 both the prophets and the rest of your people who reverence you ,
\q1 whether they were considered socially significant. 
\q1 It is time for you to reward all of them! 
\q1 You have also decided it is the time for you to destroy the people who are destroying others on the earth.
\p
\v 19 Then God's temple in heaven was opened  and  I saw in the temple the sacred box, Or: chest that contains God's covenant. Lightning was flashing, it was thundering and rumbling, the earth shook, and large hail  fell from the sky.
