\c 13
\s Revelation 13:1-10
\sr A beast rose from the ocean. It received power and authority from the dragon. All people worshipped it, that is, all people whose names were not recorded in the book of life worshipped the beast for forty-two months.
\p
\v 1 I saw a beast that was coming up out of the ocean. It had ten horns and seven heads. On each of its horns there was a royal crown. On each of its heads there was a name that insulted God.
\v 2 The beast that I saw was like a leopard. But its feet were like the feet of a bear, and its mouth was like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave the beast power. From his own throne he also gave it authority to rule people .
\v 3 One of the heads of the beast had been wounded  marveled at the beast and became his disciples.
\v 4 They worshipped the dragon, because he had given to the beast authority to rule people. They also worshipped the beast, saying, "No one is as powerful as the beast!
\v 5 The beast was allowed  to exercise authority over people for forty-two months.
\v 6 It spoke  in order to insult God, in order to insult his name, in order to insult the place where he lives, and in order to insult the people who live there in heaven.
\v 7 It was allowed , and over every nation.
\v 8 Most of  the people living on earth worshipped it. They were people whose names were not written in a book by the one who is like a lamb, the one who had been killed. Since the beginning of the world he wrote in it the names of the people who will have eternal life.
\v 9 Everyone who wants to understand  must listen carefully to this message from God:
\v 10 If God has determined that some people will be captured by their enemies, they will be captured. If God has determined that some people will be killed with a sword, they will be killed with the sword. So God's people must be steadfast, and be faithful to him.
\s Revelation 13:11-18
\sr Another beast appeared, having the same authority to rule people that the first beast had, and it caused people on earth to worship the first beast. People made an image of the first beast, and the beast had everyone killed who refused to worship the image. It caused all people to be marked with the name of the first beast. The number of the beast's name is 666.
\p
\v 11 I saw another beast, which was coming up from the earth. It had two small horns on its head like a sheep has. But it spoke things to deceive people, like the dragon does.
\v 12 While the first beast watched, it used all the same authority to rule people that the first beast had. It forced the people who live on the earth  to worship the first beast, that is, the one who was healed of the wound that had caused it to almost die.
\v 13 The second beast performed awesome miracles, even causing fire from the sky to fall to earth while people watched.
\v 14 He performed miracles on behalf of the first beast. By doing that he deceived the unbelieving people on the earth so that they believed that they should worship the first beast. But this happened only because God allowed it to happen. The second beast told the people living on earth to make an image of the first beast, the one that people had killed with a sword and that then came back to life again.
\v 15 The image of the first beast was allowed to breathe, in order that it might speak and in order that it might command that whoever refused to worship its image should be killed .
\v 16 The second beast required also that the first beast's name be marked  on the right hand or on the forehead of everyone, those of little social importance and of great social importance, the rich and the poor, free people and slaves. Everyone!
\v 17 They did this in order that people could not buy anything or sell anything if they did not have the mark, which represents the name of the beast or the number of its name, on their foreheads.
\v 18 You must think wisely to understand the meaning of the mark. Anyone who thinks wisely should calculate from the number of the beast what the man's name is. That number is six hundred and sixty-six.
