\c 14
\s Revelation 14:1-5
\sr John saw the Lamb standing on Mount Zion with 144,000 redeemed people, who were marked with God's seal. They were singing a new song that only the redeemed could sing.
\p
\v 1 But then I saw the one who is like a lamb standing on Zion Hill in Jerusalem. With him were 144,000 people. His name and his Father's name had been written  on their foreheads.
\v 2 I heard a sound from heaven, which was as loud  mighty thunder. The sound that I heard was like the sound that people make when they are playing their harps.
\v 3 The 144,000 people were singing a new song while they stood in front of the throne, in front of the four living creatures, and in front of the elders. Only the 144,000 people, the ones who have been  redeemed, Or: bought from among the people on the earth, could learn that song. No one else could learn the song that they sang.
\v 4 Those 144,000 are the people who are spiritually pure, like virgins are morally pure. They have not defiled themselves by worshipping any false god. They are the ones who accompany Jesus, the one who is like a lamb, wherever he goes. They represent all those whom he has redeemed, Or: bought for God from among the people of earth, in order that he might offer them to God and to himself.
\v 5 Those people never lie when they speak , and they never act immorally.
\s Revelation 14:6-13
\sr An angel announced that God's judgment had destroyed the wicked cities symbolized as Babylon. Another angel declared individual judgment on worshipers of the beast, who symbolizes the head of this world power. The saints are called to remain steadfast.
\p
\v 6 I saw another angel that was flying between the sky and heaven. He was bringing God's eternal good message to earth, in order that he might proclaim it to people who live on the earth. He will proclaim it to every nation, to every tribe, to speakers of every language , and to every people-group.
\v 7 He said in a loud voice, "Reverence God and honor him, because it is now time for him to judge people! Worship God, because he is the one who created the heaven, the earth, the ocean, and the springs of water."
\v 8 Another angel, the second one, came after him saying, "The very evil cities (OR, city) represented by Babylon are completely destroyed! God has punished their people because they have persuaded people of all the nations to forsake God, just like a prostitute  persuades men to drink strong wine and as a result commit sexual immorality."
\v 9 Another angel, the third one, came afterward, saying in a loud voice, "If people worship the beast and its image and allow its mark to be put  on their foreheads or on their hands,
\v 10 God will be angry with them and punish them very severely  in burning sulfur in the presence of his holy angels and in the presence of the one who is like a lamb.
\v 11 The smoke from the fire that torments them will rise forever. They will be tormented ."
\v 12 So God's people, those who obey what God commands and who trust in Jesus, must faithfully continue obeying and trusting him.
\v 13 I heard a voice from heaven saying, "Write this: God will now abundantly bless the people who have a close relationship with the Lord Jesus for the rest of their lives." God's Spirit says, "Yes, after they die they will no longer have to work hard. Instead, they will rest, and the record of the good deeds ."
\s Revelation 14:14-20
\sr One like the Son of Man sat on a cloud, holding a sharp sickle. An angel from the sanctuary commanded him to harvest the earth. Another angel was commanded to reap the fruit of the vine of the earth. He threw the fruit that he harvested into the winepress of God's anger. When the winepress was trodden, the flow was like a flood of blood on the earth.
\p
\v 14 Then I was surprised to see a white cloud, and on the cloud someone was sitting who looked like the one who came from heaven. He was wearing a golden crown on his head. In his hand he held a sharp sickle.
\v 15 Another angel came out of the temple in heaven. In a loud voice, speaking figuratively about gathering people for God to judge them, he said to the one who was sitting on the cloud, "The time has come to reap the grain on the earth, so with your sickle reap the grain, because the grain on the earth is ripe."
\v 16 The one who was sitting on the cloud forcefully gathered together all the people on earth, as  a farmer reaps grain with his sickle.
\v 17 Another angel came out of the sanctuary in heaven. He also held a sharp sickle.
\v 18 From the altar came another angel. He is the one who takes care of the fire of the altar. Also speaking figuratively about gathering the wicked people for God to judge and punish them, he said in a loud voice to the angel who held the sharp sickle, "With your sharp sickle cut off the clusters of grapes in the vineyards on the earth! Then gather the clusters of grapes together, because its grapes are ripe!"
\v 19 So, just like a man would cut off with his sickle the clusters of grapes in his vineyard , an angel forcefully gathered the wicked people on the earth. Then he threw them into the huge place where God will angrily punish them.
\v 20 The wicked people were trampled on .
