\c 16
\s Revelation 16:1-9
\sr Four angels emptied their judgment bowls.
\p
\v 1 In the vision I heard someone in the temple speak in a loud voice to the angels who had the seven bowls. He said, "Go from here and pour out on the earth the wine the seven bowls. This will show that God is angry with rebellious people and will punish them."
\v 2 So the first angel went and poured out on the earth the wine his bowl. As a result, horrible and painful sores broke out on his enemies who had allowed the beast's agents to mark them and who worshipped the image of the beast.
\v 3 The second angel poured out on the ocean the wine every living creature that was in the ocean died.
\v 4 The third angel poured out on the rivers and water springsthe wine that was in his bowl. As a result, the water in the rivers and springs turned into blood.
\v 5 I heard the angel who has authority over the waters say to God,  "O God, you exist and have always existed. You are the holy one. You judge people justly.
\v 6 The rebellious people murdered your holy people and prophets. So you are just in punishing them by giving them blood to drink. This is what they deserve!"
\v 7 Then I heard an angel respond from the altar , "Yes, Lord God, you who are almighty, you punish people rightly and justly!"
\v 8 Then the fourth angel poured out on the sun the wine his bowl. He enabled the sun to scorch people with fiery heat.
\v 9 Because people were severely burned by the intense heat , because he had the power to strike people with plagues like those. But they refused to turn away from their evil behavior and refused to honor him.
\s Revelation 16:10-16
\sr Two more angels emptied their judgment bowls on the earth. Demons gathered armies to fight against God. But Jesus warned his people to watch faithfully for his imminent coming. The battle was ready to begin at Armageddon.
\p
\v 10 When the fifth angel poured out on the throne of the beast the wine his bowl, it became dark in the kingdom that the beast ruled. As a result, the beast and the people whom it ruled were biting their tongues because they were suffering intense pain.
\v 11 They insulted God who rules in heaven, because their sores were so painful. But they refused to stop doing the evil things that they were doing.
\v 12 The sixth angel poured out on the huge river Euphrates the wine.
\v 13 I saw evil spirits that looked like frogs. One came out of the mouth of the dragon, one from the mouth of the beast, and one from the mouth of the false prophet.
\v 14 Those spirits were demons who were able to perform miracles. They went out to the rulers of the whole world, in order to gather their armies .
\v 15-16 The evil spirits will gather the rulers at a place that is called in the Hebrew language Armageddon.
\p I heard the Lord Jesus say,  "You must listen carefully to me: I am coming unexpectedly  a person keeps his clothes on so that he will not be ashamed like a person who is naked."
\s Revelation 16:17-21
\sr After the seventh angel emptied his bowl, God punished the very evil city symbolized by Babylon, and destroyed other cities, and great disasters followed.
\p
\v 17 The seventh angel poured out into the air the wine his bowl. As a result, someone said with a loud voice from the throne in the temple, "The time for God to punish rebellious people is about to be finished."
\v 18 When the angel emptied his bowl, lightning flashed, there were rumblings and thunder, and the earth shook. It shook more violently than it has ever shaken since people first lived on earth.
\v 19 And as a result, the very evil city that is symbolized by Babylon split into three parts. God also destroyed cities in other nations. God did not forget that the people of  that represented his punishment.
\v 20 Also as a result of the earthquake, every island disappeared, and the mountains became flat land.
\v 21 Also as a result of the angel's emptying his bowl, huge hailstones, each weighing about 100 pounds, fell from the sky onto the people. Then people insulted God because he had caused the terrible plague of destructive hail to fall on them.
