\c 17
\s Revelation 17:1-2
\sr One of the seven angels offered to show John how God will punish the very evil city represented by a prostitute, with whom the rulers of people on earth have been seduced to act immorally and idolatrously.
\p
\v 1 One of the seven angels, who had one of the seven bowls, came to me. He said to me, "Come with me and I will show you how God will punish the very evil city that is represented by  a prostitute, a city in which there are many canalsof water.
\v 2 It is as though the rulers of earth have acted immorally and idolatrously with the people of that city , just like a prostitute persuades men to drink the strong wine she gives them, resulting in their becoming drunkand committing immorality."
\s Revelation 17:3-6
\sr When the angel took John to a wilderness, he saw an immoral woman who was drunk with the blood of God's people. The sight caused John to react with great bewilderment.
\p
\v 3 Then, as God's Spirit controlled me, the angel carried me away to a desolate area. There I saw a woman who was sitting on a red beast. The beast had written names all over itself. They were names that insulted God. It had seven heads and ten horns.
\v 4 The woman that I saw was wearing purple and red clothes; and gold, precious stones, and pearls were fastened to her clothes and her body. She held in her hand a golden cup. The cup was full of a liquid that represents , idolatrous things and filthy immoral things that she does.
\v 5 This name, that has a hidden meaning, was written on her forehead:  "This woman is Babylon, the very evil city! She acts like the mother of the prostitutes on the earth. She teaches them to act immorally and to worship idols."
\v 6 I saw that the woman had become drunk as a result of drinking the blood of God's people, those who had told others about Jesus. When I saw her, I was very bewildered.
\s Revelation 17:7-18
\sr The angel revealed the meaning of what John had seen, identifying as ruling entities both the beast which amazed people and his seven heads and ten horns, and the angel declared that they would be overcome by the Lamb and defeated. The angel identified the prostitute as representing the very evil city that dominates people, and he declared that it would be destroyed.
\p
\v 7 The angel said to me, "Do not be bewildered! meaning of the woman and of the beast on which she rides, the beast that has the seven heads and the ten horns.
\v 8 The beast that you saw lived previously. Eventually God will destroy him, but now he is dead. He is about to come up from the underworld.
\v 9 Those who think wisely can understand this: The seven heads of the beast on which the woman sits symbolize the seven hills of the city that the woman represents. They also symbolize seven rulers.
\v 10 Five of those rulers have died. One is still alive. The seventh ruler has not yet come. When he comes, he must remain for only a short time.
\v 11 The beast that lived before and then was not alive will be the eighth ruler. He will be evil like the seven rulers were, but God will surely destroy him.
\v 12 The ten horns that you saw represent ten rulers who have not yet begun to rule. They will receive authority in order to rule people together with the beast for only a short time, as if it were  for one hour.
\v 13 Those rulers will all agree to do the same thing. As a result they will give to the beast their right to rule people and their authority to rule people .
\v 14 The rulers and the beast will fight against Jesus, the one who is like a lamb. He will defeat them, because he is Lord who rules over all other lords and the King who rules over all other kings. Those people who are with him and helping him are the ones whom God has chosen, and who keep serving him faithfully."
\v 15 Then the angel said to me, "The waters that you saw in the city where the prostitute sits represent people-groups, multitudes of people, nations, and speakers of many languages .
\v 16 The ten horns that you saw represent rulers , and they will burn it with fire.
\v 17 They will do that because God has caused them to decide to do what he wants them to do. As a result, they will let the beast have their power to rule until what God has said is fulfilled .
\v 18 The prostitute that you saw represents the very evil city whose leaders  rule over the kings of the earth."
