\c 18
\s Revelation 18:1-3
\sr A powerful angel descended from heaven and announced that the cities represented by Babylon were about to be completely destroyed because of their immorality and idolatry.
\p
\v 1 After this I saw another angel, who had great authority, coming down from heaven. The earth became bright  because he was shining so intensely. 
\v 2 He shouted with a very loud voice, "God is about to completely destroy  birds will live there. 
\v 3  God will destroy those cities because  their rulers have persuaded the people of ."
\s Revelation 18:4-5
\sr John heard Jesus tell God's people to flee out of those cities.
\p
\v 4 I heard  Jesus speak from heaven. He said, "My people, flee from  those cities, in order that you do not sin as the people  of those cities do. If you sin as they do, I will punish you as I will punish them. 
\v 5  It is as though their sins have been piled ."
\s Revelation 18:6-8
\sr Jesus sentenced the cities represented by Babylon to destruction.
\p
\v 6  To the angels whom God assigned to punish those cities, Jesus said, "Pay back. 
\v 7 To the same extent that they have honored themselves and done the things that they wanted to do, to that extent torment them and cause them to grieve. Do that because in their minds they think, 'We rule as queens! We are not widows, and we will never mourn  as widows do!' 
\v 8 So in one day terrible calamities will come upon them. The people in those cities will die, others will mourn for them, people will be hungry  because there will be no food, and  their cities will be burned up. The Lord God is able to punish those cities  like that, because he is mighty."
\s Revelation 18:9-19
\sr Earth's kings, merchants, and maritime traders mourned the loss of those cities.
\p
\v 9 "The kings of the earth who have acted immorally  with people of those cities and have lived with the people of those cities, doing just what they wanted to do, will weep and mourn  for them when they see the smoke of the fire that is burning them. 
\v 10 They will stand far away  from those cities, because they will be afraid  that they will suffer just like the people of those cities are suffering. They will say, 'Terrible things will happen to the awesome and mighty cities  represented by Babylon! God will punish them suddenly and swiftly !' 
\v 11 The merchants of the earth will weep and will mourn  for those cities, because no one will ever again buy the things that they have  to sell to the people in those cities. 
\v 12-13  They sell ornaments made of gold, silver, precious stones, and pearls. They sell  expensive cloth made of fine linen and silk, expensive cloth that is dyed purple and crimson. They sell all kinds of  rare wood, all kinds of items  made of ivory, costly wood, bronze, iron, and marble. They sell cinnamon, spice, perfume, frankincense, wine, olive oil, fine flour, and grain. They sell cattle, sheep, horses, and chariots. They even sell human beings  to become slaves. 
\v 14  The merchants will say, 'The good things you people longed to have are gone! All your luxurious and splendid !' 
\v 15 The merchants  who sold these things and who had become rich by  supplying them for those  cities will stand far away, because they will be afraid  that they will suffer just like the people  of those cities are suffering. They will weep and mourn , 
\v 16 and they will say, 'Terrible things  fine linen  cloth and expensive cloth dyed purple and crimson, and who were adorned with gold, precious stones, and pearls. 
\v 17 But suddenly and swiftly , and all others who earn their living  by traveling on the ocean will stand far away  from those cities. 
\v 18 When they see the smoke of the fire that is burning those cities, they will shout, 'No  other cities have ever been so awesome! 
\v 19 They will throw dust on their heads  to show that they are sad, and they will shout, weep, and mourn  those cities!'"
\s Revelation 18:20-24
\sr All of God's people who belong to heaven are called to rejoice because God has pronounced judgment on the cities represented by Babylon.
\p
\v 20 Then someone spoke from heaven saying, "You who live in heaven, rejoice over what has happened to  the cities represented by Babylon! You who are God's people, including you apostles, you prophets, rejoice, because God has justly punished the people of those cities because they acted evilly toward you!"
\p
\v 21 Then a mighty angel picked up a boulder the size of a large stone for grinding grain, and he threw it into the ocean. Then he said, "O you people in ! 
\v 22 In your cities there will never again be  anyone playing harps, singing, playing flutes, and blowing trumpets. There will no longer be any skilled workers the mills. 
\v 23 No lamplight will ever again shine. There will never again be the  happy voices of a bridegroom and his bride. God will destroy your cities because your merchants were the most  deceiving men in the world. You persuaded them to deceive  people of  all nations. 
\v 24 You are also  responsible for killing  killed on the earth!"
