\c 20
\s Revelation 20:1-3
\sr John saw an angel coming down from heaven. He seized, bound, and imprisoned the dragon for a thousand years.
\p
\v 1 I saw an angel coming down from heaven. He had the key to the deep dark pit, and he was carrying a large chain in his hand.
\v 2 He seized the dragon. That dragon is the ancient serpent, the devil, that is, Satan. The angel bound him with the chain. That chain could not be loosed  for a thousand years.
\v 3 The angel threw him into the deep dark pit. He shut the door of the pit, locked it, and sealed it to prevent anyone from opening it. He did that in order that Satan might no longer deceive the people of the nations  for a short time in order that he can do what God has planned.
\s Revelation 20:4-6
\sr John saw the thrones of the martyrs who lived again and had authority to judge people. Those martyrs are the first people whom God will cause to live again. They will reign with Christ during the thousand years.
\p
\v 4 I saw thrones on which people were sitting. They were given  cut off because of their telling people about Jesus and declaring God's message. They were people who refused to worship the beast or its image, and who did not allow the beast's agents to put the beast's mark on them, either on their foreheads or on their hands. They became alive again, and they ruled with Christ during those thousand years.
\v 5 They were the ones who lived again the first time that God caused dead people to live again. The rest of the believers who had died did not live again until after those thousand years.
\v 6 God will be pleased with a second time. Instead, they will be priests who serve God and Christ, and they will rule with Christ during those thousand years.
\s Revelation 20:7-15
\sr When Satan is released, he will deceive the nations in order to assemble them to fight against God and his people. God will send fire to burn up the rebellious nations. He will cause Satan to be thrown into the lake of fire for everlasting punishment.
\p
\v 7 When the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released  from his prison.
\v 8 He will go out to deceive the rebellious people in nations , just like no one can count the grains of sand on the ocean shore.
\v 9 They will march over the whole earth and will surround the camp of God's people in Jerusalem, the city that God loves. Then God will send fire down from heaven, and it will burn them up.
\v 10 The devil, who had deceived those people, will be thrown . As a result, they will continually suffer severely forever.
\p
\v 11 Then I saw a huge white throne on which God was sitting. He was so awesome that the earth and the sky disappeared from his presence completely; they were completely destroyed .
\v 12 I saw that the people who had died but now lived again were standing in front of the throne. They included people of every social status! The books in which God records what people do were opened , which is called the Book of Life, in which God has written the names of people who have eternal life. God judged the people who had died and now lived again according to what they had done, just like he had recorded it in the books.
\v 13 The people whose bodies were buried in the sea became alive again in order to stand before God's throne. Everyone who had been buried on the land  became alive again, in order to stand before the throne. God judged each one of them according to what each one had done.
\v 14 All the unbelievers  —those who had been in the place where they waited after they died—were thrown into the burning lake. The burning lake is the place in which people die the second time.
\v 15 The people whose names  into the lake of fire.
