\c 22
\s Revelation 22:1-5
\sr God will supply abundant life in the city, his servants will worship him face-to-face, no one will be there whom God would curse, and his servants will reign forever and ever.
\p
\v 1 The angel showed me the river of water that causes people who drink from it to live forever. The water was sparkling and clear like crystal. The river was flowing out from the throne where God and the one who is like a lamb were sitting.
\v 2 It flowed down through the middle of the main street of the city. On each side of the river were trees having fruit that causes people who eat it to live forever. The trees bear twelve crops  use the leaves of the trees as medicine in order that they may be strengthened.
\v 3 There will never be anyone or anything there that God will curse. The throne of God and of the one who is like a lamb will be in the city. And his servants will worship him there.
\v 4 They will see him face-to-face, and his name will be written  on their foreheads.
\v 5 There will never again be night. God's servants will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun, because the Lord God will shine his light upon them. And they will rule forever.
\s Revelation 22:6-7
\sr God verified the revelation of his message to his servants in which he showed them what must happen soon.
\p
\v 6 The angel said to me: "These words thatGod has revealed to you are true, and he will certainly fulfill them. The Lord God who inspires the prophets sent his angel to show the people who serve him the events that must happen soon."
\v 7 Jesus says to all his people, "Listen to this! I am coming soon; God will abundantly bless everyone who obeys the message that has been written in this book."
\s Revelation 22:8-11
\sr John attested that he has himself heard and seen all these things. He was told to tell others the revelation because its fulfillment was near, and everyone should be ready.
\p
\v 8 I, John, am the one who heard and saw in a vision these things that I have written down. When I had heard and seen them, I immediately knelt down at the feet of the angel who was showing them to me, in order to worship him.
\v 9 But he said to me, "Do not worship me! I am just your fellow servant! I am also the fellow servant of your fellow believers who are the prophets, and I am a fellow servant of those who obey the message in this book. Instead, worship God!"
\v 10 He also said to me, "Do not keep secret the message about what God has foretold in this book, because it is almost time  for him to fulfill this message.
\v 11 Since that time is near, if those who act in an evil manner want to continue to act that way  for that. Those who are acting righteously should continue to act righteously. Those who are holy should continue to be holy."
\s Revelation 22:12-16
\sr Jesus announced that he had sent his angel to bear witness to the congregations about all that John had seen. He authoritatively identified himself as the Descendant of King David and as the Messianic Morning Star.
\p
\v 12 Jesus says to all people: "Listen! I am coming soon! And I will pay back and punish or reward everyone according to what each one has done.
\v 13 I am the one who began all things .
\v 14 God is very pleased with the people who wash their robes, making themselves spiritually clean  the tree that enables people to live forever, and because they will be able to enter the gates into the holy city.
\v 15 Outside are people who are unholy. They include people who practice sorcery, people who sin sexually, murderers, idol worshipers, and all people who enjoy telling lies and are continual liars. They can never enter that city."
\p
\v 16 "I, Jesus, sent my angel in order that he might say to you who are in the congregationsthat all these things are true. I am the descendant of King David whom the prophets promised would come , the one that Moses promised would come."
\s Revelation 22:17
\sr God's Spirit and the Bride invite all who desire to drink the living water to come and drink, and they invite all who hear to extend the invitation to others.
\p
\v 17 God's Spirit and his people, who are like ! Everyone who desires the water that enables people to live forever should take it as a free gift!
\s Revelation 22:18-19
\sr Jesus warned about what would happen to anyone who adds to the message of the book or who takes away any message of its revelation.
\p
\v 18 "I, Jesus, solemnly warn everyone who hears the message about what I have foretold in this book: If anyone adds anything to this message, God will cause him to experience the plagues that are  described in this book.
\v 19 If anyone takes away any of the message about what I have foretold in this book, God will take away that person's right to eat fruit from  in this book."
\s Revelation 22:20
\sr Jesus declares that he is certainly coming soon.
\p
\v 20 Jesus, who says that all these things are true, says, "Certainly I am coming soon!" I, John, reply, "May it be so! Lord Jesus, come!"
\s Revelation 22:21
\sr John closes with a prayer that Jesus will continue to bless all God's people.
\p
\v 21 I pray that our Lord Jesus will continue to act kindly to all of you who are God's people. Amen!
