\c 3
\p
\v 1 O foolish Galatians, who did bewitch you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly set forth crucified?
\v 2 This only would I learn from you, Received you the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
\v 3 Are you so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are you now perfected in the flesh?
\v 4 Did you suffer so many things in vain? if it be indeed in vain.
\v 5 He therefore that supplieth to you the Spirit, and works miracles among you,
does he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
\v 6 Even as Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him for righteousness.
\v 7 Know therefore that they that are of faith, the same are sons of Abraham.
\v 8 And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham,
saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed.
\v 9 So then they that are of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham.
\v 10 For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one who continueth not
in all things that are written in the book of the law, to do them.
\v 11 Now that no man is justified by the law before God, is evident: for, The righteous shall live by faith;
\v 12 and the law is not of faith; but, He that does them shall live in them.
\v 13 Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us; for it is written, Cursed is every one that
hangs on a tree:
\v 14 that upon the Gentiles might come the blessing of Abraham in Christ Jesus; that we might receive the promise of the
Spirit through faith.
\p
\v 15 Brethren, I speak after the manner of men: Though it be but a man’s covenant, yet when it has been confirmed, no one
makes it void, or adds thereto.
\v 16 Now to Abraham were the promises spoken, and to his seed. He says not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to
your seed, which is Christ.
\v 17 Now this I say: A covenant confirmed beforehand by God, the law, which came four hundred and thirty years after, does not
disannul, so as to make the promise of none effect.
\v 18 For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no more of promise: but God has granted it to Abraham by promise.
\v 19 What then is the law? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise has been
made; and it was ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator.
\v 20 Now a mediator is not a mediator of one; but God is one.
\v 21 Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if there had been a law given which could make alive, verily
righteousness would have been of the law.
\v 22 But the scripture shut up all things under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to them that
believe.
\p
\v 23 But before faith came, we were kept in ward under the law, shut up to the faith which should afterwards be revealed.
\v 24 So that the law is become our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
\v 25 But now that faith is come, we are no longer under a tutor.
\v 26 For you are all sons of God, through faith, in Christ Jesus.
\v 27 For as many of you as were baptized into Christ did put on Christ.
\v 28 There can be neither Jew nor Greek, there can be neither bond nor free, there can be no male and female; for you all are
one man in Christ Jesus.
\v 29 And if you are Christ’s, then are you Abraham’s seed, heirs according to promise.