\c 1
\p
\v 1 And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and Jehovah his God was with him, and magnified him
exceedingly.
\v 2 And Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every prince in
all Israel, the heads of the fathers’ houses.
\v 3 So Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon; for there was the tent of meeting of
God, which Moses the servant of Jehovah had made in the wilderness.
\v 4 But the ark of God had David brought up from Kiriath-jearim to
the place that David had prepared for it; for he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem.
\v 5 Moreover the brazen altar, that Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, was there before the tabernacle of
Jehovah: and Solomon and the assembly sought to it.
\v 6 And Solomon went up there to the brazen altar before Jehovah, which was at the tent of meeting, and offered a thousand
burnt offerings upon it.
\p
\v 7 In that night did God appear to Solomon, and said to him, Ask what I shall give thee.
\v 8 And Solomon said to God, You have showed great lovingkindness to David my father, and have made me king in his stead.
\v 9 Now, O Jehovah God, let your promise to David my father be established; for you have made me king over a people like the
dust of the earth in multitude.
\v 10 Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people; for who can judge this your people,
that is so great?
\v 11 And God said to Solomon, Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked riches, wealth, or honor, nor the life of
them that hate thee, neither yet have asked long life; but have asked wisdom and knowledge for thyself, that you may judge
my people, over whom I have made you king:
\v 12 wisdom and knowledge is granted to you; and I will give you riches, and wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings
have had that have been before you; neither shall there any after you have the like.
\v 13 So Solomon came from the high place that was at Gibeon, from before the tent of meeting, to Jerusalem; and he reigned
over Israel.
\p
\v 14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand
horsemen, that he placed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.
\v 15 And the king made silver and gold to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycomore-trees that are
in the lowland, for abundance.
\v 16 And the horses which Solomon had were brought out of Egypt; the king’s merchants received them in droves, each drove at a
price.
\v 17 And they fetched up and brought out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred
shekels of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty: and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of
Syria, did they bring them out by their means.