\c 2
\p
\v 1 Now Solomon purposed to build a house for the name of Jehovah, and a house for his kingdom.
\v 2 And Solomon counted out threescore and ten thousand men to bear burdens, and fourscore thousand men that were hewers in
the mountains, and three thousand and six hundred to oversee them.
\v 3 And Solomon sent to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, As you did deal with David my father, and did send him cedars to
build him a house to dwell therein, even so deal with me.
\v 4 Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of Jehovah my God, to dedicate it to him, and to burn before him incense
of sweet spices, and for the continual showbread, and for the burnt offerings morning and evening, on the sabbaths, and on the
new moons, and on the set feasts of Jehovah our God. This is an
ordinance for ever to Israel.
\v 5 And the house which I build is great; for great is our God above all gods.
\v 6 But who is able to build him a house, seeing heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him? who am I then, that I
should build him a house, save only to burn incense before him?
\v 7 Now therefore send me a man skillful to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson,
and blue, and that knows how to grave all manner of gravings,
to be with the skillful men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom David my father did provide.
\v 8 Send me also cedar-trees, fir-trees, and algum-trees, out of Lebanon; for I know that your servants know how to cut timber
in Lebanon. And, behold, my servants shall be with your servants,
\v 9 even to prepare me timber in abundance; for the house which I am about to build shall be great and wonderful.
\v 10 And, behold, I will give to your servants, the hewers that cut timber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and
twenty thousand measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil.
\p
\v 11 Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent to Solomon, Because Jehovah loves his people, he has
made you king over them.
\v 12 Huram said moreover, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, that made heaven and earth, who has given to David the king
a wise son, endued with discretion and understanding, that should build a house for Jehovah, and a house for his kingdom.
\v 13 And now I have sent a skillful man, endued with understanding, of Huram my father’s,
\v 14 the son of a woman of the daughters of Dan; and his father was a man of Tyre, skillful to work in gold, and in silver, in
brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson, also to grave any manner of
graving, and to devise any device; that there may be a place appointed to him with your skillful men, and with the
skillful men of my lord David your father.
\v 15 Now therefore the wheat and the barley, the oil and the wine, which my lord has spoken of, let him send to his
servants:
\v 16 and we will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as you shall need; and we will bring it to you in floats by sea to Joppa;
and you shall carry it up to Jerusalem.
\p
\v 17 And Solomon numbered all the sojourners that were in the land of Israel, after the numbering wherewith David his father
had numbered them; and they were found a hundred and fifty thousand and three thousand and six hundred.
\v 18 And he set threescore and ten thousand of them to bear burdens, and fourscore thousand that were hewers in the mountains,
and three thousand and six hundred overseers to set the people at work.