\c 6
\p
\v 1 Then spoke Solomon, Jehovah has said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
\v 2 But I have built you a house of habitation, and a place for you to dwell in for ever.
\v 3 And the king turned his face, and blessed all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
\p
\v 4 And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to David my father, and has with his hands
fulfilled it, saying,
\v 5 Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to
build a house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to be prince over my people Israel:
\v 6 but I have chosen Jerusalem, that my name might be there, and have chosen David to be over my people Israel.
\v 7 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
\v 8 But Jehovah said to David my father, Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it
was in your heart:
\v 9 nevertheless you shall not build the house; but your son that shall come forth out of your loins, he shall build the house
for my name.
\v 10 And Jehovah has performed his word that he spake; for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and sit on the
throne of Israel, as Jehovah promised, and have built the house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
\v 11 And there have I set the ark, wherein is the covenant of Jehovah, which he made with the children of Israel.
\p
\v 12 And he stood before the altar of Jehovah in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands
\v 13 (for Solomon had made a brazen scaffold, five cubits long, and five cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it
in the midst of the court; and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his knees before all the assembly of Israel, and spread
forth his hands toward heaven);
\v 14 and he said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, there is no God like thee, in heaven, or on earth; who keep covenant and
lovingkindness with your servants, that walk before you with all their heart;
\v 15 who have kept with your servant David my father that which you did promise him: yea, you spoke with your mouth, and
have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day.
\v 16 Now therefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, keep with your servant David my father that which you have promised him,
saying, There shall not fail you a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your children take heed to their
way, to walk in my law as you have walked before me.
\v 17 Now therefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, let your word be verified, which you spoke to your servant David.
\p
\v 18 But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how
much less this house which I have builded!
\v 19 Yet have you respect to the prayer of your servant, and to his supplication, O Jehovah my God, to listen to the cry
and to the prayer which your servant prays before thee;
\v 20 that your eyes may be open toward this house day and night, even toward the place whereof you have said that you
would put your name there; to listen to the prayer which your servant shall pray toward this place.
\v 21 And listen you to the supplications of your servant, and of your people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place:
yea, hear you from your dwelling-place, even from heaven; and when you hearest, forgive.
\p
\v 22 If a man sin against his neighbor, and an oath be laid upon him to cause him to swear, and he come
and swear before your altar in this house;
\v 23 then hear you from heaven, and do, and judge your servants, requiting the wicked, to bring his way upon his own head; and
justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
\p
\v 24 And if your people Israel be struck down before the enemy, because they have sinned against thee, and shall turn again
and confess your name, and pray and make supplication before you in this house;
\v 25 then hear you from heaven, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them again to the land which you
gave to them and to their fathers.
\p
\v 26 When the heavens are shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; if they pray toward this
place, and confess your name, and turn from their sin, when you do afflict them:
\v 27 then hear you in heaven, and forgive the sin of your servants, and of your people Israel, when you teachest them the good
way wherein they should walk; and send rain upon your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance.
\p
\v 28 If there be in the land famine, if there be pestilence, if there be blasting or mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their
enemies besiege them in the land of their cities; whatever plague or whatever sickness there be;
\v 29 what prayer and supplication soever be made by any man, or by all your people Israel, who shall know every man his own
plague and his own sorrow, and shall spread forth his hands toward this house:
\v 30 then hear you from heaven your dwelling-place, and forgive, and render to every man according to all his ways, whose
heart you know (for you, even you only, know the hearts of the children of men);
\v 31 that they may fear thee, to walk in your ways, so long as they live in the land which you gave to our fathers.
\p
\v 32 Moreover concerning the foreigner, that is not of your people Israel, when he shall come from a far country for your great
name’s sake, and your mighty hand, and your outstretched arm; when they shall come and pray toward this house:
\v 33 then hear you from heaven, even from your dwelling-place, and do according to all that the foreigner calls to you for;
that all the peoples of the earth may know your name, and fear thee, as does your people Israel, and that they may know that this
house which I have built is called by your name.
\p
\v 34 If your people go out to battle against their enemies, by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to you
toward this city which you have chosen, and the house which I have built for your name;
\v 35 then hear you from heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
\p
\v 36 If they sin against you (for there is no man that sins not), and you be angry with them, and deliver them to the
enemy, so that they carry them away captive to a land far off or near;
\v 37 yet if they shall bethink themselves in the land whither they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication
to you in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done perversely, and have dealt wickedly;
\v 38 if they return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither they have
carried them captive, and pray toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, and the city which you have chosen,
and toward the house which I have built for your name:
\v 39 then hear you from heaven, even from your dwelling-place, their prayer and their supplications, and maintain their cause,
and forgive your people who have sinned against thee.
\p
\v 40 Now, O my God, let, I beseech thee, your eyes be open, and let your ears be attent, to the prayer that is made in
this place.
\v 41 Now therefore arise, O Jehovah God, into your resting-place, thou, and the ark of your strength: let your priests, O Jehovah
God, be clothed with salvation, and let your saints rejoice in goodness.
\v 42 O Jehovah God, turn not away the face of your anointed: remember
your lovingkindnesses to David your servant.