\c 14
\p
\v 1 So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his
days the land was quiet ten years.
\v 2 And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of Jehovah his God:
\v 3 for he took away the foreign altars, and the high places, and brake down the pillars, and hewed down the Asherim,
\v 4 and commanded Judah to seek Jehovah, the God of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandment.
\v 5 Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the sun-images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.
\v 6 And he built fortified cities in Judah; for the land was quiet, and he had no war in those years, because Jehovah had
given him rest.
\v 7 For he said to Judah, Let us build these cities, and make about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars; the land is yet
before us, because we have sought Jehovah our God; we have sought him, and he has given us rest on every side. So they built
and prospered.
\v 8 And Asa had an army that bare bucklers and spears, out of Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare
shields and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were mighty men of valor.
\p
\v 9 And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an army of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and
he came to Mareshah.
\v 10 Then Asa went out to meet him, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.
\v 11 And Asa cried to Jehovah his God, and said, Jehovah, there is none besides you to help, between the mighty and him
that has no strength: help us, O Jehovah our God; for we rely on thee, and in your name are we come against this multitude. O
Jehovah, you are our God; let not man prevail against thee.
\v 12 So Jehovah struck the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah; and the Ethiopians fled.
\v 13 And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them to Gerar: and there fell of the Ethiopians so many that they
could not recover themselves; for they were destroyed before Jehovah, and before his host; and they carried away very much
booty.
\v 14 And they struck all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of Jehovah came upon them: and they despoiled all the
cities; for there was much spoil in them.
\v 15 They struck also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep in abundance, and camels, and returned to Jerusalem.