\c 16
\p
\v 1 In the six and thirties year of the reign of Asa, Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he
might not suffer any one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
\v 2 Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of Jehovah and of the king’s house, and sent to
Ben-hadad king of Syria, that lived at Damascus, saying,
\v 3 There is a league between me and thee, as there was
between my father and your father: behold, I have sent you silver and gold; go, break your league with Baasha king of
Israel, that he may depart from me.
\v 4 And Ben-hadad listened to king Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel; and they struck
Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-maim, and all the store-cities of Naphtali.
\v 5 And it came to pass, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off building Ramah, and let his work cease.
\v 6 Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha had
builded; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.
\p
\v 7 And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and said to him, Because you have relied on the king of
Syria, and have not relied on Jehovah your God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria escaped out of your hand.
\v 8 Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubim a huge host, with chariots and horsemen exceeding many? yet, because you did rely
on Jehovah, he delivered them into your hand.
\v 9 For the eyes of Jehovah run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to show himself strong in the behalf of them whose
heart is perfect toward him. Herein you have done foolishly; for from henceforth you shall have wars.
\v 10 Then Asa was angry with the seer, and put him in the prison-house; for he was in a rage with him because of this thing.
And Asa oppressed some of the people at the same time.
\p
\v 11 And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
\v 12 And in the thirty and ninth year of his reign Asa was diseased in his feet; his disease was exceeding great: yet in his
disease he sought not to Jehovah, but to the physicians.
\v 13 And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and forties year of his reign.
\v 14 And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had hewn out for himself in the city of David, and laid him in the
bed which was filled with sweet odors and various kinds of spices prepared by the perfumers’ art: and they made a very
great burning for him.