\c 20
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass after this, that the children of Moab, and the children of Ammon, and with them some of the Ammonites,
came against Jehoshaphat to battle.
\v 2 Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There comes a great multitude against you from beyond the sea from
Syria; and, behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar (the same is En-gedi).
\v 3 And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek to Jehovah; and he proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.
\v 4 And Judah gathered themselves together, to seek help of Jehovah: even out of all the cities of Judah they came
to seek Jehovah.
\p
\v 5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of Jehovah, before the new court;
\v 6 and he said, O Jehovah, the God of our fathers, are not you God in heaven? and are not you ruler over all the kingdoms
of the nations? and in your hand is power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee.
\v 7 Did not thou, O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and give it to the seed of
Abraham your friend for ever?
\v 8 And they lived therein, and have built you a sanctuary therein for your name, saying,
\v 9 If evil come upon us, the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house, and before you (for
your name is in this house), and cry to you in our affliction, and you will hear and save.
\v 10 And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir, whom you would not let Israel invade, when they came
out of the land of Egypt, but they turned aside from them, and destroyed them not;
\v 11 behold, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of your possession, which you have given us to inherit.
\v 12 O our God, will you not judge them? for we have no might against this great company that comes against us; neither know
we what to do: but our eyes are upon thee.
\v 13 And all Judah stood before Jehovah, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
\p
\v 14 Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite, of the
sons of Asaph, came the Spirit of Jehovah in the midst of the assembly;
\v 15 and he said, Listen you, all Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and you king Jehoshaphat: Thus says Jehovah to
you, Fear not ye, neither be dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God’s.
\v 16 To-morrow go you down against them: behold, they come up by the ascent of Ziz; and you shall find them at the end of the
valley, before the wilderness of Jeruel.
\v 17 You shall not need to fight in this battle: set yourselves, stand you still, and see the salvation of Jehovah
with you, O Judah and Jerusalem; fear not, nor be dismayed: to-morrow go out against them; for Jehovah is with you.
\v 18 And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground; and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down
before Jehovah, worshipping Jehovah.
\v 19 And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites and of the children of the Korahites, stood up to praise Jehovah, the
God of Israel, with an exceeding loud voice.
\p
\v 20 And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat
stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem: believe in Jehovah your God, so shall you be established;
believe his prophets, so shall you prosper.
\v 21 And when he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed them that should sing to Jehovah, and give praise in holy
array, as they went out before the army, and say, Give thanks to Jehovah; for his lovingkindness
endures for ever.
\v 22 And when they began to sing and to praise, Jehovah set liers-in-wait against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir,
that were come against Judah; and they were smitten.
\v 23 For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to kill and destroy them: and
when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helped to destroy another.
\p
\v 24 And when Judah came to the watch-tower of the wilderness, they looked upon the multitude; and, behold, they were dead
bodies fallen to the earth, and there were none that escaped.
\v 25 And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take the spoil of them, they found among them in abundance both riches and
dead bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away: and they were three
days in taking the spoil, it was so much.
\v 26 And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Beracah; for there they blessed Jehovah: therefore the
name of that place was called The valley of Beracah to this day.
\v 27 Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem
with joy; for Jehovah had made them to rejoice over their enemies.
\v 28 And they came to Jerusalem with lutes and harps and trumpets to the house of Jehovah.
\v 29 And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of the countries, when they heard that Jehovah fought against the enemies of
Israel.
\v 30 So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet; for his God gave him rest round about.
\p
\v 31 And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and
five years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
\v 32 And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of
Jehovah.
\v 33 Howbeit the high places were not taken away; neither as yet had the people set their hearts to the God of their
fathers.
\v 34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold, they are written in the history of Jehu the son of
Hanani, which is inserted in the book of the kings of Israel.
\p
\v 35 And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself with Ahaziah king of Israel; the same did very wickedly:
\v 36 and he joined himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish; and they made the ships in Ezion-geber.
\v 37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, Because you have joined yourself
with Ahaziah, Jehovah has destroyed your works. And the ships were broken, so that they were not able to go to Tarshish.