\c 21
\p
\v 1 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and Jehoram his son reigned
in his stead.
\v 2 And he had brethren, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and
Shephatiah; all these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.
\v 3 And their father gave them great gifts, of silver, and of gold, and of precious things, with fortified cities in Judah:
but the kingdom gave he to Jehoram, because he was the first-born.
\v 4 Now when Jehoram was risen up over the kingdom of his father, and had strengthened himself, he killed all his brethren with
the sword, and various also of the princes of Israel.
\v 5 Jehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
\v 6 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab; for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he
did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
\v 7 Howbeit Jehovah would not destroy the house of David, because of the covenant that he had made with David, and as he
promised to give a lamp to him and to his children alway.
\p
\v 8 In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and made a king over themselves.
\v 9 Then Jehoram passed over with his captains, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and struck the Edomites
that compassed him about, and the captains of the chariots.
\v 10 So Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah to this day: then did Libnah revolt at the same time from under his hand,
because he had forsaken Jehovah, the God of his fathers.
\p
\v 11 Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Judah, and made the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot, and led
Judah astray.
\v 12 And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus says Jehovah, the God of David your father, Because
you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father, nor in the ways of Asa king of Judah,
\v 13 but have walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and have made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the
harlot, like as the house of Ahab did, and also have slain your brethren of your father’s house, who were better than yourself:
\v 14 behold, Jehovah will strike with a great plague your people, and your children, and your wives, and all your substance;
\v 15 and you shall have great sickness by disease of your bowels, until your bowels fall out by reason of the sickness, day by
day.
\p
\v 16 And Jehovah stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines, and of the Arabians that are beside the Ethiopians:
\v 17 and they came up against Judah, and brake into it, and carried away all the substance that was found in the king’s house,
and his sons also, and his wives; so that there was never a son left him, save Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons.
\p
\v 18 And after all this Jehovah struck him in his bowels with an incurable disease.
\v 19 And it came to pass, in process of time, at the end of two years, that his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness, and
he died of sore diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the burning of his fathers.
\v 20 Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years: and he departed without
being desired; and they buried him in the city of David, but not in the sepulchres of the kings.