\c 25
\p
\v 1 Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem: and his
mother’s name was Jehoaddan, of Jerusalem.
\v 2 And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, but not with a perfect heart.
\v 3 Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established to him, that he killed his servants that had killed the king his
father.
\v 4 But he put not their children to death, but did according to that which is written in the law in the book of Moses, as
Jehovah commanded, saying, The fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die for the fathers; but
every man shall die for his own sin.
\p
\v 5 Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and ordered them according to their fathers’ houses, under captains of thousands
and captains of hundreds, even all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered them from twenty years old and upward, and found them
three hundred thousand chosen men, able to go forth to war, that could handle spear and shield.
\v 6 He hired also a hundred thousand mighty men of valor out of Israel for a hundred talents of silver.
\v 7 But there came a man of God to him, saying, O king, let not the army of Israel go with thee; for Jehovah is not with
Israel, to wit, with all the children of Ephraim.
\v 8 But if you will go, do valiantly, be strong for the battle: God will cast you down before the enemy; for God
has power to help, and to cast down.
\v 9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel?
And the man of God answered, Jehovah is able to give you much more than this.
\v 10 Then Amaziah separated them, to wit, the army that was come to him out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore
their anger was greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in fierce anger.
\v 11 And Amaziah took courage, and led forth his people, and went to the Valley of Salt, and struck of the children of Seir ten
thousand.
\v 12 And other ten thousand did the children of Judah carry away alive, and brought them to the top of the rock,
and cast them down from the top of the rock, so that they were all broken in pieces.
\v 13 But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, that they should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of
Judah, from Samaria even to Beth-horon, and struck of them three thousand, and took much spoil.
\p
\v 14 Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the
children of Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before them, and burned incense to them.
\v 15 Wherefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Amaziah, and he sent to him a prophet, who said to him, Why have
you sought after the gods of the people, which have not delivered their own people out of your hand?
\v 16 And it came to pass, as he talked with him, that the king
said to him, Have we made you of the king’s counsel? forbear; why should you be smitten? Then the prophet forbare,
and said, I know that God has determined to destroy thee, because you have done this, and have not listened to my counsel.
\p
\v 17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying,
Come, let us look one another in the face.
\v 18 And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that
was in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trod
down the thistle.
\v 19 You sayest, Lo, you have struck Edom; and your heart lifts you up to boast: abide now at home; why should you
meddle to your hurt, that you should fall, even you, and Judah with thee?
\p
\v 20 But Amaziah would not hear; for it was of God, that he might deliver them into the hand
of their enemies, because they had sought after the gods of Edom.
\v 21 So Joash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the face at Beth-shemesh, which
belongs to Judah.
\v 22 And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled every man to his tent.
\v 23 And Joash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh, and brought
him to Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.
\v 24 And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obed-edom,
and the treasures of the king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.
\p
\v 25 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.
\v 26 Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, are they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and
Israel?
\v 27 Now from the time that Amaziah did turn away from following Jehovah they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and
he fled to Lachish: but they sent after him to Lachish, and killed him there.
\v 28 And they brought him upon horses, and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah.