\c 28
\p
\v 1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and he did not that which was
right in the eyes of Jehovah, like David his father;
\v 2 but he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and made also molten images for the Baalim.
\v 3 Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and burnt his children in the fire, according to the
abominations of the nations whom Jehovah cast out before the children of Israel.
\v 4 And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.
\p
\v 5 Wherefore Jehovah his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria; and they struck him, and carried away of his a
great multitude of captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who
struck him with a great slaughter.
\v 6 For Pekah the son of Remaliah killed in Judah a hundred and twenty thousand in one day, all of them valiant men; because
they had forsaken Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
\v 7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, killed Maaseiah the king’s son, and Azrikam the ruler of the house, and Elkanah that
was next to the king.
\v 8 And the children of Israel carried away captive of their brethren two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and
took also away much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.
\v 9 But a prophet of Jehovah was there, whose name was Oded: and he went out to meet the host that came to Samaria, and said
to them, Behold, because Jehovah, the God of your fathers, was angry with Judah, he has delivered them into your hand, and
you have slain them in a rage which has reached up to heaven.
\v 10 And now you purpose to keep under the children of Judah and Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen to you:
but are there not even with you trespasses of your own against Jehovah your God?
\v 11 Now hear me therefore, and send back the captives, that you have taken captive of your brethren; for the fierce wrath of
Jehovah is upon you.
\v 12 Then certain of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and
Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against them that came from the war,
\v 13 and said to them, You shall not bring in the captives hither: for you purpose that which will bring upon us a trespass
against Jehovah, to add to our sins and to our trespass; for our trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.
\v 14 So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the princes and all the assembly.
\v 15 And the men that have been mentioned by name rose up, and took the captives, and with the spoil clothed all that were
naked among them, and arrayed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink, and anointed them, and carried all the
feeble of them upon asses, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm-trees, to their brethren: then they returned to
Samaria.
\p
\v 16 At that time did king Ahaz send to the kings of Assyria to help him.
\v 17 For again the Edomites had come and struck Judah, and carried away captives.
\v 18 The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the lowland, and of the South of Judah, and had taken Beth-shemesh, and
Aijalon, and Gederoth, and Soco with the towns thereof, and Timnah with the towns thereof, Gimzo also and the towns thereof:
and they lived there.
\v 19 For Jehovah brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel; for he had dealt wantonly in Judah, and trespassed sore
against Jehovah.
\v 20 And Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria came to him, and distressed him, but strengthened him not.
\v 21 For Ahaz took away a portion out of the house of Jehovah, and out of the house of the king and of the princes, and gave
it to the king of Assyria: but it helped him not.
\p
\v 22 And in the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against Jehovah, this same king Ahaz.
\v 23 For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus, which struck him; and he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped
them, therefore will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But they were the ruin of him, and of all Israel.
\v 24 And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut
up the doors of the house of Jehovah; and he made him altars in every corner of Jerusalem.
\v 25 And in every city of Judah he made high places to burn incense to other gods, and provoked to anger Jehovah, the God of
his fathers.
\v 26 Now the rest of his acts, and all his ways, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah
and Israel.
\v 27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, even in Jerusalem; for they brought him not into the
sepulchres of the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.