\c 30
\p
\v 1 And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the
house of Jehovah at Jerusalem, to keep the passover to Jehovah, the God of Israel.
\v 2 For the king had taken counsel, and his princes, and all the assembly in Jerusalem, to keep the passover in the second
month.
\v 3 For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had not sanctified themselves in sufficient number, neither
had the people gathered themselves together to Jerusalem.
\v 4 And the thing was right in the eyes of the king and of all the assembly.
\v 5 So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beer-sheba even to Dan, that they should
come to keep the passover to Jehovah, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem: for they had not kept it in great numbers in such sort
as it is written.
\v 6 So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the
commandment of the king, saying, You children of Israel, turn again to Jehovah, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that he
may return to the remnant that are escaped of you out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.
\v 7 And be not you like your fathers, and like your brethren, who trespassed against Jehovah, the God of their fathers, so that
he gave them up to desolation, as you see.
\v 8 Now be you not stiffnecked, as your fathers were; but yield yourselves to Jehovah, and enter into his sanctuary, which he
has sanctified for ever, and serve Jehovah your God, that his fierce anger may turn away from you.
\v 9 For if you turn again to Jehovah, your brethren and your children shall find compassion before them that led them
captive, and shall come again into this land: for Jehovah your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face
from you, if you return to him.
\p
\v 10 So the posts passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, even to Zebulun: but they laughed
them to scorn, and mocked them.
\v 11 Nevertheless certain men of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem.
\v 12 Also upon Judah came the hand of God to give them one heart, to do the commandment of the king and of the princes by the
word of Jehovah.
\p
\v 13 And there assembled at Jerusalem much people to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great
assembly.
\v 14 And they arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem, and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast
them into the brook Kidron.
\v 15 Then they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the second month: and the priests and the Levites were
ashamed, and sanctified themselves, and brought burnt offerings into the house of Jehovah.
\v 16 And they stood in their place after their order, according to the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled the
blood which they received of the hand of the Levites.
\v 17 For there were many in the assembly that had not sanctified themselves: therefore the Levites had the charge of killing
the passovers for every one that was not clean, to sanctify them to Jehovah.
\v 18 For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim and Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet
did they eat the passover otherwise than it is written. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, The good Jehovah pardon every
one
\v 19 that sets his heart to seek God, Jehovah, the God of his fathers, though
he be not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary.
\v 20 And Jehovah listened to Hezekiah, and healed the people.
\v 21 And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great
gladness; and the Levites and the priests praised Jehovah day by day,
singing with loud instruments to Jehovah.
\v 22 And Hezekiah spoke comfortably to all the Levites that had good understanding
in the service of Jehovah. So they did eat throughout the feast for the seven days, offering sacrifices of
peace-offerings, and making confession to Jehovah, the God of their fathers.
\p
\v 23 And the whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days; and they kept
other seven days with gladness.
\v 24 For Hezekiah king of Judah did give to the assembly for offerings a thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the
princes gave to the assembly a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: and a great number of priests sanctified themselves.
\v 25 And all the assembly of Judah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the assembly that came out of Israel, and the
sojourners that came out of the land of Israel, and that lived in Judah, rejoiced.
\v 26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem; for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel there was not the like
in Jerusalem.
\v 27 Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: and their voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his
holy habitation, even to heaven.