\c 34
\p
\v 1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign; and he reigned thirty and one years in Jerusalem.
\v 2 And he did that which was right in the eyes of Jehovah, and walked in the ways of David his father, and turned not aside
to the right hand or to the left.
\v 3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David his father; and in
the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the Asherim, and the graven images, and the
molten images.
\v 4 And they brake down the altars of the Baalim in his presence; and the sun-images that were on high above them he hewed
down; and the Asherim, and the graven images, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and made dust of them, and strewed it
upon the graves of them that had sacrificed to them.
\v 5 And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, and purged Judah and Jerusalem.
\v 6 And so did he in the cities of Manasseh and Ephraim and Simeon, even to Naphtali, in their ruins round about.
\v 7 And he brake down the altars, and beat the Asherim and the graven images into powder, and hewed down all the sun-images
throughout all the land of Israel, and returned to Jerusalem.
\p
\v 8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah,
and Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of Jehovah his God.
\v 9 And they came to Hilkiah the high priest, and delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the
Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and of all the remnant of Israel, and
of all Judah and Benjamin, and of the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
\v 10 And they delivered it into the hand of the workmen that had the oversight of the house of Jehovah; and the workmen that
wrought in the house of Jehovah gave it to mend and repair the house:
\v 11 even to the carpenters and to the builders gave they it, to buy hewn stone, and timber for couplings, and to make beams
for the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed.
\v 12 And the men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of them were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of
Merari; and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set it forward; and
others of the Levites, all that were skillful with instruments of music.
\v 13 Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and set forward all that did the work in every manner of service: and of the
Levites there were scribes, and officers, and porters.
\p
\v 14 And when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of Jehovah, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the
law of Jehovah given by Moses.
\v 15 And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of Jehovah. And
Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan.
\v 16 And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and moreover brought back word to the king, saying, All that was committed to
your servants, they are doing.
\v 17 And they have emptied out the money that was found in the house of Jehovah, and have delivered it into the hand of the
overseers, and into the hand of the workmen.
\v 18 And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest has delivered me a book. And Shaphan read therein
before the king.
\v 19 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the law, that he tore his clothes.
\v 20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and
Asaiah the king’s servant, saying,
\v 21 Go ye, inquire of Jehovah for me, and for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book
that is found; for great is the wrath of Jehovah that is poured out upon us, because our fathers have not kept the word of
Jehovah, to do according to all that is written in this book.
\p
\v 22 So Hilkiah, and they whom the king had commanded, went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of
Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the second quarter); and they spoke to her to
that effect.
\v 23 And she said to them, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel: Tell you the man that sent you to me,
\v 24 Thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the curses that
are written in the book which they have read before the king of Judah.
\v 25 Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the
works of their hands; therefore is my wrath poured out upon this place, and it shall not be quenched.
\v 26 But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of Jehovah, thus shall you say to him, Thus says Jehovah, the God of
Israel: As touching the words which you have heard,
\v 27 because your heart was tender, and you did humble yourself before God, when you heard his words against this place,
and against the inhabitants thereof, and have humbled yourself before me, and have tore your clothes, and wept before me; I also
have heard thee, says Jehovah.
\v 28 Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, neither shall your eyes see
all the evil that I will bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof. And they brought back word to the king.
\p
\v 29 Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
\v 30 And the king went up to the house of Jehovah, and all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests,
and the Levites, and all the people, both great and small: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant
that was found in the house of Jehovah.
\v 31 And the king stood in his place, and made a covenant before Jehovah, to walk after Jehovah, and to keep his commandments,
and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that
were written in this book.
\v 32 And he caused all that were found in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand
to it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers.
\v 33 And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the countries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all
that were found in Israel to serve, even to serve Jehovah their God. All his days they departed not from following Jehovah, the
God of their fathers.