\c 21
\p
\v 1 And when it came to pass that we were parted from them and had set sail, we came with a straight course to Cos, and the
next day to Rhodes, and from thence to Patara:
\v 2 and having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went aboard, and set sail.
\v 3 And when we had come in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on the left hand, we sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre; for there
the ship was to unlade her burden.
\v 4 And having found the disciples, we tarried there seven days: and these said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not
set foot in Jerusalem.
\v 5 And when it came to pass that we had accomplished the days, we departed and went on our journey; and they all, with wives
and children, brought us on our way till we were out of the city: and kneeling down on the beach, we prayed, and bade each
other farewell;
\v 6 and we went on board the ship, but they returned home again.
\p
\v 7 And when we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais; and we saluted the brethren, and abode with them
one day.
\v 8 And on the morrow we departed, and came to Caesarea: and entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of
the seven, we abode with him.
\v 9 Now this man had four virgin daughters, who prophesied.
\v 10 And as we tarried there some days, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus.
\v 11 And coming to us, and taking Paul’s girdle, he bound his own feet and hands, and said, Thus says the Holy Spirit, So
shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
\v 12 And when we heard these things, both we and they of that place implored him not to go up to Jerusalem.
\v 13 Then Paul answered, What do ye, weeping and breaking my heart? for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at
Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
\v 14 And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
\p
\v 15 And after these days we took up our baggage and went up to Jerusalem.
\v 16 And there went with us also certain of the disciples from Caesarea, bringing
with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we should lodge.
\p
\v 17 And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.
\v 18 And the day following Paul went in with us to James; and all the elders were present.
\v 19 And when he had saluted them, he rehearsed one by one the things which God had wrought among the Gentiles through his
ministry.
\v 20 And they, when they heard it, glorified God; and they said to him, You seest, brother, how many thousands there are
among the Jews of them that have believed; and they are all zealous for the law:
\v 21 and they have been informed concerning thee, that you teachest all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses,
telling them not to circumcise their children, neither to walk after the customs.
\v 22 What is it therefore? they will certainly hear that you are come.
\v 23 Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men that have a vow on them;
\v 24 these take, and purify yourself with them, and be at charges for them, that they may shave their heads: and all shall know
that there is no truth in the things whereof they have been informed concerning thee; but that you yourself also walk
orderly, keeping the law.
\v 25 But as touching the Gentiles that have believed, we wrote, giving judgment that they should keep themselves from things
sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what is strangled, and from fornication.
\v 26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with them went into the temple, declaring the fulfilment of
the days of purification, until the offering was offered for every one of them.
\p
\v 27 And when the seven days were almost completed, the Jews from Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the
multitude and laid hands on him,
\v 28 crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is the man that teaches all men everywhere against the people, and the law, and
this place; and moreover he brought Greeks also into the temple, and has defiled this holy place.
\v 29 For they had before seen with him in the city Trophimus the Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the
temple.
\v 30 And all the city was moved, and the people ran together; and they laid hold on Paul, and dragged him out of the temple:
and straightway the doors were shut.
\v 31 And as they were seeking to kill him, tidings came up to the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in
confusion.
\v 32 And forthwith he took soldiers and centurions, and ran down upon them: and they, when they saw the chief captain and the
soldiers, left off beating Paul.
\v 33 Then the chief captain came near, and laid hold on him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and inquired who
he was, and what he had done.
\v 34 And some shouted one thing, some another, among the crowd: and when he could not know the certainty for the uproar, he
commanded him to be brought into the castle.
\v 35 And when he came upon the stairs, so it was that he was borne of the soldiers for the violence of the crowd;
\v 36 for the multitude of the people followed after, crying out, Away with him.
\p
\v 37 And as Paul was about to be brought into the castle, he says to the chief captain, May I say something to thee? And
he said, Do you know Greek?
\v 38 Are you not then the Egyptian, who before these days stirred up to sedition and led out into the wilderness the four
thousand men of the Assassins?
\v 39 But Paul said, I am a Jew, of Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and I beseech thee, give me leave to speak
to the people.
\v 40 And when he had given him leave, Paul, standing on the stairs, beckoned with the hand to the people; and when there was
made a great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying,