\c 22
\p
\v 1 Brethren and fathers, hear you the defence which I now make to you.
\p
\v 2 And when they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they were the more quiet: and he saith,
\p
\v 3 I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city, at the feet of Gamaliel, instructed according to the
strict manner of the law of our fathers, being zealous for God, even as you all are this day:
\v 4 and I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.
\v 5 As also the high priest does bear me witness, and all the estate of the elders: from whom also I received letters to the
brethren, and journeyed to Damascus to bring them also that were there to Jerusalem in bonds to be punished.
\v 6 And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and drew near to Damascus, about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven
a great light round about me.
\v 7 And I fell to the ground, and heard a voice saying to me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest you me?
\v 8 And I answered, Who are you, Lord? And he said to me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you persecutest.
\v 9 And they that were with me [*]saw indeed the light, but they heard not the voice of him that spoke to me.
\v 10 And I said, What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said to me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told
you of all things which are appointed for you to do.
\v 11 And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of them that were with me I came into
Damascus.
\v 12 And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well reported of by all the Jews that lived there,
\v 13 came to me, and standing by me said to me, Brother Saul, receive your sight. And in that very hour I looked up on him.
\v 14 And he said, The God of our fathers has appointed you to know his will, and to see the Righteous One, and to hear a
voice from his mouth.
\v 15 For you shall be a witness for him to all men of what you have seen and heard.
\v 16 And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on his name.
\v 17 And it came to pass, that, when I had returned to Jerusalem, and while I prayed in the temple, I fell into a trance,
\v 18 and saw him saying to me, Make haste, and get you quickly out of Jerusalem; because they will not receive of you
testimony concerning me.
\v 19 And I said, Lord, they themselves know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee:
\v 20 and when the blood of Stephen your witness was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting, and keeping the garments of
them that killed him.
\v 21 And he said to me, Depart: for I will send you forth far hence to the Gentiles.
\p
\v 22 And they gave him audience to this word; and they lifted up their voice, and said, Away with such a fellow from the
earth: for it is not fit that he should live.
\v 23 And as they cried out, and threw off their garments, and cast dust into the air,
\v 24 the chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle, bidding that he should be examined by scourging, that he
might know for what cause they so shouted against him.
\v 25 And when they had tied him up with the thongs, Paul said to the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to
scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?
\v 26 And when the centurion heard it, he went to the chief captain and told him, saying, What are you about to do? for this
man is a Roman.
\v 27 And the chief captain came and said to him, Tell me, are you a Roman? And he said, Yea.
\v 28 And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this citizenship. And Paul said, But I am
a Roman born.
\v 29 They then that were about to examine him straightway departed from him: and the chief captain also was afraid when he
knew that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him.
\p
\v 30 But on the morrow, desiring to know the certainty wherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him, and commanded the
chief priests and all the council to come together, and brought Paul down and set him before them.