\c 25
\p
\v 1 Festus therefore, having come into the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
\v 2 And the chief priests and the principal men of the Jews informed him against Paul; and they implored him,
\v 3 asking a favor against him, that he would send for him to Jerusalem; laying a plot to kill him on the way.
\v 4 Howbeit Festus answered, that Paul was kept in charge at Caesarea, and that he himself was about to depart
there shortly.
\v 5 Let them therefore, says he, that are of power among you go down with me, and if there is anything amiss in the man, let
them accuse him.
\p
\v 6 And when he had tarried among them not more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesarea; and on the morrow he sat on
the judgment-seat, and commanded Paul to be brought.
\v 7 And when he was come, the Jews that had come down from Jerusalem stood round about him, bringing against him many and
grievous charges which they could not prove;
\v 8 while Paul said in his defence, Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar, have I
sinned at all.
\v 9 But Festus, desiring to gain favor with the Jews, answered Paul and said, Wilt you go up to Jerusalem, and there be
judged of these things before me?
\v 10 But Paul said, I am standing before Caesar’s judgment-seat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong,
as you also very well knowest.
\v 11 If then I am a wrong-doer, and have committed anything worthy of death, I refuse not to die; but if none of those things
is true whereof these accuse me, no man can give me up to them. I appeal to Caesar.
\v 12 Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, You have appealed to Caesar: to Caesar shall you go.
\p
\v 13 Now when certain days were passed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived at Caesarea, and saluted Festus.
\v 14 And as they tarried there many days, Festus laid Paul’s case before the king, saying, There is a certain man left a
prisoner by Felix;
\v 15 about whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed
me, asking for sentence against him.
\v 16 To whom I answered, that it is not the custom of the Romans to give up any man, before that the accused have the accusers
face to face, and have had opportunity to make his defence concerning the matter laid against him.
\v 17 When therefore they were come together here, I made no delay, but on the next day sat on the judgment-seat, and commanded
the man to be brought.
\v 18 Concerning whom, when the accusers stood up, they brought no charge of such evil things as I supposed;
\v 19 but had certain questions against him of their own religion, and of one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be
alive.
\v 20 And I, being perplexed how to inquire concerning these things, asked whether he would go to Jerusalem and there be judged
of these matters.
\v 21 But when Paul had appealed to be kept for the decision of the emperor, I commanded him to be kept till I should send him
to Caesar.
\v 22 And Agrippa said to Festus, I also could wish to hear the man myself. To-morrow, says he, you shall hear
him.
\p
\v 23 So on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with great pomp, and they were entered into the place of hearing
with the chief captains and the principal men of the city, at the command of Festus Paul was brought in.
\v 24 And Festus saith, King Agrippa, and all men who are here present with us, you behold this man, about whom all the
multitude of the Jews made suit to me, both at Jerusalem and here, crying that he ought not to live any longer.
\v 25 But I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death: and as he himself appealed to the emperor I determined to send
him.
\v 26 Of whom I have no certain thing to write to my lord. Wherefore I have brought him forth before you, and specially
before thee, king Agrippa, that, after examination had, I may have somewhat to write.
\v 27 For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not withal to signify the charges against him.