\c 26
\p
\v 1 And Agrippa said to Paul, You are permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth his hand, and made his
defence:
\p
\v 2 I think myself happy, king Agrippa, that I am to make my defence before you this day touching all the things whereof I am
accused by the Jews:
\v 3 especially because you are expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech you to hear
me patiently.
\v 4 My manner of life then from my youth up, which was from the beginning among mine own nation and at Jerusalem, know all the
Jews;
\v 5 having knowledge of me from the first, if they be willing to testify, that after the straitest sect of our religion I
lived a Pharisee.
\v 6 And now I stand here to be judged for the hope of the promise made of God to our fathers;
\v 7 to which promise our twelve tribes, earnestly serving
God night and day, hope to attain. And concerning this hope I am accused by the Jews, O king!
\v 8 Why is it judged incredible with you, if God does raise the dead?
\v 9 I verily thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
\v 10 And this I also did in Jerusalem: and I both shut up many of the saints in prisons, having received authority from the
chief priests, and when they were put to death I gave my vote against them.
\v 11 And punishing them oftentimes in all the synagogues, I strove to make them blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against
them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
\v 12 Whereupon as I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests,
\v 13 at midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them
that journeyed with me.
\v 14 And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why
persecutest you me? it is hard for you to kick against the goad.
\v 15 And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you persecutest.
\v 16 But arise, and stand upon your feet: for to this end have I appeared to you, to appoint you a minister and a witness
both of the things wherein you have seen me, and of the things wherein I will appear to thee;
\v 17 delivering you from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you,
\v 18 to open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive
remission of sins and an inheritance among them that are sanctified by faith in me.
\v 19 Wherefore, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision:
\v 20 but declared both to them of Damascus first, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the country of Judaea, and also to the
Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance.
\v 21 For this cause the Jews seized me in the temple, and assayed to kill me.
\v 22 Having therefore obtained the help that is from God, I stand to this day testifying both to small and great, saying
nothing but what the prophets and Moses did say should come;
\v 23 how that the Christ must suffer, and how that he first by the resurrection of the dead should proclaim light
both to the people and to the Gentiles.
\p
\v 24 And as he thus made his defence, Festus says with a loud voice, Paul, you are mad; your much learning is turning you
mad.
\v 25 But Paul saith, I am not mad, most excellent Festus; but speak forth words of truth and soberness.
\v 26 For the king knows of these things, to whom also I speak freely: for I am persuaded that none of these things is
hidden from him; for this has not been done in a corner.
\v 27 King Agrippa, believest you the prophets? I know that you believest.
\v 28 And Agrippa said to Paul, With but little persuasion you would fain make me a Christian.
\v 29 And Paul said, I would to God, that whether with little or with much, not you only, but also all that hear me
this day, might become such as I am, except these bonds.
\p
\v 30 And the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernice, and they that sat with them:
\v 31 and when they had withdrawn, they spoke one to another, saying, This man does nothing worthy of death or of bonds.
\v 32 And Agrippa said to Festus, This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed to Caesar.