\c 1
\p
\v 1 I, Simon Peter, am writing this letter to you. I serve Jesus Christ, and am an apostle appointed by him. I am sending this letter to you whom God has caused to believe in Christ just like he caused us privilege of believing in Jesus Christ. Heis God, he is righteous, he is the one whom we worship, and he is our Savior.
\v 2 I pray that God will continue to act very kindly towards you, and give you a deep inner peace, because you truly know God and Jesus, who is our Lord.
\s 2 Peter 1:3-4
\sr God has given us everything that we need to receive eternal life and to live godly lives.
\p
\v 3 God . He gives us that by the power that he has because he is God, and he has also given it to us as a result of our knowing him. He is the one who by his own glorious, Or: wonderful and perfect nature chose us to be his people.
\v 4 By means of this glorious and perfect nature, he has promised us that he will do very great and priceless things for us. He has also promised to you that by believing what he has promised you will be able to act righteously, just like God acts righteously, and that you will be free from being morally depraved, Or: corrupted, and that you will not be like those who do not believe in Christ and are morally depraved because of their desire to do what is evil.
\s 2 Peter 1:5-11
\sr Exert yourselves to the utmost to develop a stable Christian character.
\p
\v 5 Because God has done all that, by exerting yourselves strenuously.
\v 6 And make sure that you not only know what God desires , but that you are also godly.
\v 7 And make sure that you not only are godly, but that you also have a concern for your fellow believers, as brothers and sisters ought to have for each other. And make sure that you not only have a concern for your fellow believers, but that you also love others.
\v 8 If you do these things, and if you do them more and more, that demonstrates that knowing our Lord Jesus Christ is very effective in your lives.
\v 9 If these qualities are not present in people, it means they are not aware that these things are important, just like a blind person is not aware of what is around him. They think only about earthly matters, just like  a shortsighted person sees clearly only things that are near. It seems that they have forgotten that God has forgiven them for their former sinful lives.
\v 10 Instead of acting like those people, try to confirm to be his people. If you do that, you will certainly never become separated from God,
\v 11 and God will very wholeheartedly welcome you into the place where our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will rule his people forever.
\s 2 Peter 1:12-15
\sr I intend to keep reminding you very frequently about these matters.
\p
\v 12 I intend to keep on reminding you very frequently  about these matters, even though you already know them and are firmly convinced that they are true.
\v 13 I consider it right that I should help you to continually think about these matters by reminding you about them as long as I am alive ,
\v 14 because I know that I shall die  soon, just like our Lord Jesus Christ clearly has revealed to me.
\v 15 Moreover, I will make every effort.
\s 2 Peter 1:16-21
\sr You can be sure that these matters are true, because we apostles ourselves witnessed that our Lord Jesus Christ is supremely great, and also because what the prophets say about him is completely reliable.
\p
\v 16 We apostles told you that our Lord Jesus Christ acts powerfully and that he is coming back some day. We were not basing what we told you on stories that we had cleverly invented. Instead, we told you what we ourselves saw with our own eyes, that the Lord Jesus is supremely great.
\v 17 God, our Father, greatly honored him when God's great glory said, "This is my Son, whom I love very much; I am very pleased with him."
\v 18 We mountain.
\v 19 We also have what the prophets wrote about Christ long ago, which is completely reliable and the morning star rises and we can see it clearly.
\v 20 It is important that you realize that no one can interpret,
\v 21 because no human beings decided to make those prophecies. On the contrary, those who spoke messages from God did that because it was the Holy Spirit who caused them to do it, and therefore the Spirit must help us to interpret their meaning.
