\c 2
\s 2 Peter 2:1-3
\sr There will be false teachers among you who will behave wickedly and who will entice you to behave just like they do. God will certainly destroy them.
\p
\v 1 Just like there were false prophets among the Israelite people long ago, so there will also be teachers of false teachings among you. They will enter your congregations without you realizing what they are, and they will spiritually injure some people by what they teach. Specifically, these teachers will even deny that the Lord Jesus died to payfor the guilt of our sins. As a result, they will soon destroy themselves spiritually, and God will also punish them.
\v 2 And many people will behave in an extremely immoral manner, imitating the extremely immoral manner in which these teachers of false teaching behave. As a result, unbelievers will discredit the true message.
\v 3 Because the teachers of false teaching want a lot of things that other people have, they think that by telling you stories that they themselves have made up! He will certainly destroy them!
\s 2 Peter 2:4-10c
\sr It is certain that God knows how to rescue those who are godly, and that he knows how to keep those who are unrighteous until the time when he will punish them.
\p
\v 4 God destroyed  the angels who sinned. He threw them into the worst place in hell and imprisoned themthere in darkness in order to keep them there until he judges and punishes them.
\v 5 He also got rid of  who were living then.
\v 6 He also condemned Sodom and Gomorrah cities; that is, he destroyed them by burning them completely to ashes. By doing that he gave a warning to those who afterwards would live in an ungodly manner.
\v 7 But he rescued Abraham's nephew, Lot, who was a righteous man. Lot was greatly distressed because the people in Sodom were doing very immoral deeds.
\v 8 That righteous man's soul was tormented day after day because he saw and heard those wicked people behave in a very lawless, Or: wicked manner when he was living among them.
\v 9 And since the Lord God rescued Lot, you can be sure that he knows how to rescue godly people, whom he has started to punish even now, until the time when he will finish judging them and punish them.
\v 10 He will punish especially severely those ungodly teachers of false teachings who do the things that their self-directed nature desires, things that defile them. Those teachers of false teachings despise all beings who rule over them.
\s 2 Peter 2:10d-16
\sr Because those teachers of false doctrine will behave wickedly and will entice people to do the same things that they do, God will destroy them.
\p Because those teachers of false teachings are extremely arrogant.
\v 11 In contrast, angels do not insult those teachers when those teachers accuse the angels while the Lord God is watching, even though the angels are much more powerful  than the teachers of false teaching.
\v 12 Because those teachers of false doctrines are like animals that cannot think as humans do .
\v 13 God will punish those teachers in return for the unrighteous actions defile a clean garment.
\v 14 They want to commit , they are doomed to eternal punishment.
\v 15 They have rejected good moral standards the Jews.
\v 16 But God rebuked him for having done that which was wrongand for behaving very foolishly. And even though donkeys do not speak, God used a donkey to hinder Balaam by enabling it to speak to him with a human voice.
\s 2 Peter 2:17-22
\sr Because those teachers of false doctrine will entice people to behave wickedly, God has reserved darkest hell for them.
\p
\v 17 These teachers of false teachings mislead people by causing them to expect rain, but no rain falls. Therefore, God has reserved the darkness of hell for those teachers of false teachings.
\v 18 By boasting proudly as they make speeches that are worthless, they entice people who have recently become believers and have ceased to do the things that wicked people do. They entice them into sin by encouraging them to do the evil deeds that their self-directed nature urges them to do.
\v 19 The false teachers tell people that they are free to do whatever they want to do, even though they themselves are like slaves , it is as though that person has become a slave of what controls him.'
\v 20 Those teachers of false teachings learned about our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. As a result, they stopped doing those deeds that defile people spiritually. Since they have begun to do those evil deeds again, with the result that they are unable to stop doing such deeds, they are in a worse condition than they were in before they knew Jesus Christ.
\v 21 Because God will severely punish them, it would have been better for them if they had never known what it means to conduct their lives in a righteous manner. It is too bad that although they knew how to conduct their lives in a righteous manner, they rejected the things that God commanded people to do, the things that were taught to them by us apostles.
\v 22 The way in which they are behaving again is just like the proverbs: They are like dogs that return to eat their vomit, and they are like pigs that have washed and then roll again in the mud.
