\c 3
\s 2 Peter 3:1-2
\sr I am writing this letter to you in order to stimulate you to remember what the holy prophets said and what our Lord and Savior commanded.
\p
\v 1 This letter that I am now writing to you whom I love, is the second letter that I have written to you. I have written both these letters to you in order that by reminding you about the things you already know, I may stimulate you to think sincerely about those things.
\v 2 I want you to remember the words that were spoken by the holy prophets  long ago, and also to remember what our Lord and Savior commanded, things that we, your apostles, told you about.
\s 2 Peter 3:3-10
\sr Although certain people will ridicule the idea that the Lord Jesus Christ is going to come back, the reason why he has not yet come back to judge people is that God is being patient with people; but Jesus will certainly come back and judge people.
\p
\v 3 It is important for you to understand that in the time immediately before Christ comes back, there will be people who will ridicule the idea of his coming back. Those people will do whatever evil deeds they wish to do.
\v 4 They will say, "Although it was promised that Christ will come back, nothing has happened that would indicate that he is coming back., everything has remained the same. Things are as they always have been since God created the world!"
\v 5 They will say that because they deliberately overlook the fact that God, by commanding long ago that it should be so, caused the heavens to exist, and he caused the earth to come up out of water and to be separate from the water.
\v 6 And God, bycommanding that it should be so, later destroyed the world that existed at that time, by causing the earth to be flooded with water .
\v 7 Furthermore, God, by commanding that it should be so, has set apart the heavens and the earth that exist now, and they are being kept . And at that time he will destroy the heavens and the earth by burning them.
\v 8 Dear friends, I want you to understand well that the Lord God is willing to wait a long time to judge the people in the world! How much time passes before the Lord God judges the people in the world does not matter to him! He considers that one day passes no more quickly than a thousand years, and he also considers that a thousand years pass as quickly as one day passes to us!
\v 9 Therefore, you should not think that because Christ has not yet come back to judge people, the Lord God is delaying what he promised. Some people think that this is so, and they say that Christ never will come back. But you should understand that the reason why Christ has not yet come back to judge people is that God is being patient towards you, because he does not want anyone to be lost eternally. Instead, he wants everyone to turn away from their sinful behavior.
\v 10 Although God is being patient, at the time .
\s 2 Peter 3:11-13
\sr You certainly ought to behave in a godly manner, because God will destroy everything and because only those people who are righteous will live in the new heavens and on the new earth.
\p
\v 11 Because God will certainly destroy all these things like I just said, you certainly know how you should behave.
\v 12 while you eagerly will melt and burn up.
\v 13 Although all those events righteous.
\s 2 Peter 3:14-18a
\sr Do all you can to conduct your lives in a godly manner. Guard against those who would entice you to doubt what you now firmly believe.
\p
\v 14 Therefore, dear friends, because you are waiting for these things to happen, do all that you can to conduct your lives in a godly manner and that you are living peacefully with each other.
\v 15 And think about this: Our Lord Jesus Christ is patient because he wants people to be saved. Our dear brother.
\v 16 In the letters that Paul wrote there are certain things that are difficult for people to understand. People who are spiritually ignorant and unstable the other parts of the Scriptures wrongly. The result is that they will destroy themselves spiritually, and God will punish them.
\v 17 Therefore, dear friends, since you already know about these teachers of false teachings, guard against them. Do not let these wicked people deceive you by telling you things that are wrong, with the result that you yourselves begin to doubt what you now firmly believe.
\v 18 Instead, live in such a manner that you experience more and more our Savior Jesus Christ acting kindly towards you, and that you get to know him better and better.
\s 2 Peter 3:18b
\sr I pray that Jesus Christ will always be honored.
\p I pray
