\c 1
\p
\v 1 Now king David was old and stricken in years; and they covered him with clothes, but he got no heat.
\v 2 Wherefore his servants said to him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin: and let her stand before
the king, and cherish him; and let her lie in your bosom, that my lord the king may get heat.
\v 3 So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the borders of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her
to the king.
\v 4 And the damsel was very fair; and she cherished the king, and ministered to him; but the king knew her not.
\p
\v 5 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king: and he prepared him chariots and horsemen, and
fifty men to run before him.
\v 6 And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why have you done so? and he was also a very goodly man; and
he was born after Absalom.
\v 7 And he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest: and they following Adonijah helped him.
\v 8 But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men
that belonged to David, were not with Adonijah.
\v 9 And Adonijah killed sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel; and he called all his
brethren, the king’s sons, and all the men of Judah, the king’s servants:
\v 10 but Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother, he called not.
\p
\v 11 Then Nathan spoke to Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith
does reign, and David our lord knows it not?
\v 12 Now therefore come, let me, I pray you, give you counsel, that you may save your own life, and the life of your son
Solomon.
\v 13 Go and get you in to king David, and say to him, Did not thou, my lord, O king, swear to your handmaid, saying,
Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? why then does Adonijah reign?
\v 14 Behold, while you yet talkest there with the king, I also will come in after thee, and confirm your words.
\p
\v 15 And Bath-sheba went in to the king into the chamber: and the king was very old; and Abishag the Shunammite was
ministering to the king.
\v 16 And Bath-sheba bowed, and did obeisance to the king. And the king said, What would thou?
\v 17 And she said to him, My lord, you swore by Jehovah your God to your handmaid,
saying, Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.
\v 18 And now, behold, Adonijah reigneth; and thou, my lord the king, know it not:
\v 19 and he has slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the
priest, and Joab the captain of the host; but Solomon your servant has he not called.
\v 20 And you, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that you should tell them who shall sit on the
throne of my lord the king after him.
\v 21 Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be
counted offenders.
\p
\v 22 And, lo, while she yet talked with the king, Nathan the prophet came in.
\v 23 And they told the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And when he was come in before the king, he bowed himself
before the king with his face to the ground.
\v 24 And Nathan said, My lord, O king, have you said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
\v 25 For he is gone down this day, and has slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has called all the king’s
sons, and the captains of the host, and Abiathar the priest; and, behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and say,
Long live king Adonijah.
\v 26 But me, even me your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and your servant Solomon, has he not
called.
\v 27 Is this thing done by my lord the king, and you have not showed to your servants who should sit on the throne of my
lord the king after him?
\p
\v 28 Then king David answered and said, Call to me Bath-sheba. And she came into the king’s presence, and stood before the
king.
\v 29 And the king sware, and said, As Jehovah liveth, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity,
\v 30 verily as I sware to you by Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he
shall sit upon my throne in my stead; verily so will I do this day.
\v 31 Then Bath-sheba bowed with her face to the earth, and did obeisance to the king, and said, Let my lord king David live
for ever.
\p
\v 32 And king David said, Call to me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada. And they came
before the king.
\v 33 And the king said to them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon mine own
mule, and bring him down to Gihon:
\v 34 and let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel; and blow you the trumpet, and say,
Long live king Solomon.
\v 35 Then you shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit upon my throne; for he shall be king in my stead; and I have
appointed him to be prince over Israel and over Judah.
\v 36 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, and said, Amen: Jehovah, the God of my lord the king, say so
too.
\v 37 As Jehovah has been with my lord the king, even so be he with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my
lord king David.
\p
\v 38 So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites,
went down, and caused Solomon to ride upon king David’s mule, and brought him to Gihon.
\v 39 And Zadok the priest took the horn of oil out of the Tent, and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet; and all the
people said, Long live king Solomon.
\v 40 And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth
tore with the sound of them.
\p
\v 41 And Adonijah and all the guests that were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. And when Joab heard the
sound of the trumpet, he said, Wherefore is this noise of the city being in an uproar?
\v 42 While he yet spake, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came: and Adonijah said, Come in; for you are a
worthy man, and bring good tidings.
\v 43 And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Verily our lord king David has made Solomon king:
\v 44 and the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the
Cherethites and the Pelethites; and they have caused him to ride upon the king’s mule;
\v 45 and Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon; and they are come up from thence rejoicing,
so that the city rang again. This is the noise that you have heard.
\v 46 And also Solomon sits on the throne of the kingdom.
\v 47 And moreover the king’s servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, Your God make the name of Solomon better than
your name, and make his throne greater than your throne: and the king bowed himself upon the bed.
\v 48 And also thus said the king, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who has given one to sit on my throne this day, mine
eyes even seeing it.
\p
\v 49 And all the guests of Adonijah were afraid, and rose up, and went every man his way.
\v 50 And Adonijah feared because of Solomon; and he arose, and went, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
\v 51 And it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah fears king Solomon; for, lo, he has laid hold on the horns of the
altar, saying, Let king Solomon swear to me first that he will not kill his servant with the sword.
\v 52 And Solomon said, If he shall show himself a worthy man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth; but if
wickedness be found in him, he shall die.
\v 53 So king Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and did obeisance to king Solomon; and
Solomon said to him, Go to your house.