\c 2
\p
\v 1 Now the days of David drew near that he should die; and he charged Solomon his son, saying,
\v 2 I am going the way of all the earth: be you strong therefore, and show yourself a man;
\v 3 and keep the charge of Jehovah your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes,
and his commandments, and his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of
Moses, that you may prosper in all that you doest, and wherever you turn thyself;
\v 4 that Jehovah may establish his word which he spoke concerning me, saying, If your children take heed to their way, to walk
before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail you (said he) a man on the throne of
Israel.
\v 5 Moreover you know also what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, even what he did to the two captains of the hosts of
Israel, to Abner the son of Ner, and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he slew, and shed the blood of war in peace, and put
the blood of war upon his girdle that was about his loins, and in his shoes that were on his feet.
\v 6 Do therefore according to your wisdom, and let not his hoar head go down to Sheol in peace.
\v 7 But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be of those that eat at your table; for so they
came to me when I fled from Absalom your brother.
\v 8 And, behold, there is with you Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, of Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse in
the day when I went to Mahanaim; but he came down to meet me at the Jordan, and I sware to him by Jehovah, saying, I will not
put you to death with the sword.
\v 9 Now therefore hold him not guiltless, for you are a wise man; and you will know what you ought to do to him, and
you shall bring his hoar head down to Sheol with blood.
\p
\v 10 And David slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David.
\v 11 And the days that David reigned over Israel were forty years: seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three
years reigned he in Jerusalem.
\v 12 And Solomon sat upon the throne of David his father; and his kingdom was established greatly.
\p
\v 13 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, Comest you peaceably? And he
said, Peaceably.
\v 14 He said moreover, I have somewhat to say to thee. And she said, Say on.
\v 15 And he said, You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign:
howbeit the kingdom is turned about, and is become my brother’s; for it was his from Jehovah.
\v 16 And now I ask one petition of thee; deny me not. And she said to him, Say on.
\v 17 And he said, Speak, I pray you, to Solomon the king (for he will not say you nay), that he give me Abishag the
Shunammite to wife.
\v 18 And Bath-sheba said, Well; I will speak for you to the king.
\p
\v 19 Bath-sheba therefore went to king Solomon, to speak to him for Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and bowed
himself to her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a throne to be set for the king’s mother; and she sat on his right
hand.
\v 20 Then she said, I ask one small petition of thee; deny me not. And the king said to her, Ask on, my mother; for I will
not deny thee.
\v 21 And she said, Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother to wife.
\v 22 And king Solomon answered and said to his mother, And why do you ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? ask for
him the kingdom also; for he is mine elder brother; even for him, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah.
\v 23 Then king Solomon sware by Jehovah, saying, God do so to me, and more also, if Adonijah has not spoken this word against
his own life.
\v 24 Now therefore as Jehovah liveth, who has established me, and set me on the throne of David my father, and who has made
me a house, as he promised, surely Adonijah shall be put to death this day.
\v 25 And king Solomon sent by Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he fell upon him, so that he died.
\p
\v 26 And to Abiathar the priest said the king, Get you to Anathoth, to your own fields; for you are worthy of death:
but I will not at this time put you to death, because you barest the ark of the Lord Jehovah before David my father, and
because you was afflicted in all wherein my father was afflicted.
\v 27 So Solomon thrust out Abiathar from being priest to Jehovah, that he might fulfil the word of Jehovah, which he spoke
concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
\p
\v 28 And the tidings came to Joab; for Joab had turned after Adonijah, though he turned not after Absalom. And Joab fled to
the Tent of Jehovah, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.
\v 29 And it was told king Solomon, Joab is fled to the Tent of Jehovah, and, behold, he is by the altar. Then Solomon sent
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, fall upon him.
\v 30 And Benaiah came to the Tent of Jehovah, and said to him, Thus says the king, Come forth. And he said, Nay; but I will
die here. And Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me.
\v 31 And the king said to him, Do as he has said, and fall upon him, and bury him; that you may take away the blood,
which Joab shed without cause, from me and from my father’s house.
\v 32 And Jehovah will return his blood upon his own head, because he fell upon two men more righteous and better than he, and
killed them with the sword, and my father David knew it not, to
wit, Abner the son of Ner, captain of the host of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, captain of the host of Judah.
\v 33 So shall their blood return upon the head of Joab, and upon the head of his seed for ever: but to David, and to his
seed, and to his house, and to his throne, shall there be peace for ever from Jehovah.
\v 34 Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up, and fell upon him, and killed him; and he was buried in his own house in the
wilderness.
\v 35 And the king put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada in his room over the host; and Zadok the priest did the king put in the room
of Abiathar.
\p
\v 36 And the king sent and called for Shimei, and said to him, Build you a house in Jerusalem, and dwell there, and go not
forth thence any whither.
\v 37 For on the day you go out, and passest over the brook Kidron, know you for certain that you shall surely die: your
blood shall be upon your own head.
\v 38 And Shimei said to the king, The saying is good: as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do. And Shimei
lived in Jerusalem many days.
\p
\v 39 And it came to pass at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away to Achish, son of Maacah,
king of Gath. And they told Shimei, saying, Behold, your servants are in Gath.
\v 40 And Shimei arose, and saddled his ass, and went to Gath to Achish, to seek his servants; and Shimei went, and brought his
servants from Gath.
\v 41 And it was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and was come again.
\v 42 And the king sent and called for Shimei, and said to him, Did I not adjure you by Jehovah, and protest to you,
saying, Know for certain, that on the day you go out, and walk abroad any whither, you shall surely die? and you
said to me, The saying that I have heard is good.
\v 43 Why then have you not kept the oath of Jehovah, and the commandment that I have charged you with?
\v 44 The king said moreover to Shimei, You know all the wickedness which your heart is privy to, that you did to David
my father: therefore Jehovah shall return your wickedness upon your own head.
\v 45 But king Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before Jehovah for ever.
\v 46 So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he went out, and fell upon him, so that he died. And the kingdom
was established in the hand of Solomon.