\c 3
\p
\v 1 And Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh’s daughter, and brought her into the city of David,
until he had made an end of building his own house, and the house of Jehovah, and the wall of Jerusalem round about.
\v 2 Only the people sacrificed in the high places, because there was no house built for the name of Jehovah until those days.
\v 3 And Solomon loved Jehovah, walking in the statutes of David his father: only he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high
places.
\p
\v 4 And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there; for that was the great high place: a thousand burnt offerings did Solomon
offer upon that altar.
\v 5 In Gibeon Jehovah appeared to Solomon in a dream by night; and God said, Ask what I shall give thee.
\v 6 And Solomon said, You have showed to your servant David my father great lovingkindness, according as he walked before
you in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with you; and you have kept for him this great
lovingkindness, that you have given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day.
\v 7 And now, O Jehovah my God, you have made your servant king instead of David my father: and I am but a little child; I know
not how to go out or come in.
\v 8 And your servant is in the midst of your people which you have chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered nor counted
for multitude.
\v 9 Give your servant therefore an understanding heart to judge your people, that I may discern between good and evil; for who
is able to judge this your great people?
\p
\v 10 And the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked this thing.
\v 11 And God said to him, Because you have asked this thing, and have not asked for yourself long life, neither have asked
riches for yourself, nor have asked the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice;
\v 12 behold, I have done according to your word: lo, I have given you a wise and an understanding heart; so that there has
been none like you before you, neither after you shall any arise like to you.
\v 13 And I have also given you that which you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any among
the kings like to thee, all your days.
\v 14 And if you will walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as your father David did walk, then I will
lengthen your days.
\v 15 And Solomon awoke; and, behold, it was a dream: and he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the covenant of
Jehovah, and offered up burnt-offerings, and offered peace-offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.
\p
\v 16 Then there came two women that were harlots, to the king, and stood before him.
\v 17 And the one woman said, Oh, my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house; and I was delivered of a child with her in the
house.
\v 18 And it came to pass the third day after I was delivered, that this woman was delivered also; and we were together; there
was no stranger with us in the house, save we two in the house.
\v 19 And this woman’s child died in the night, because she lay upon it.
\v 20 And she arose at midnight, and took my son from beside me, while your handmaid slept, and laid it in her bosom, and laid
her dead child in my bosom.
\v 21 And when I rose in the morning to give my child suck, behold, it was dead; but when I had looked at it in the morning,
behold, it was not my son, whom I did bear.
\v 22 And the other woman said, Nay; but the living is my son, and the dead is your son. And this said, No; but the dead is your
son, and the living is my son. Thus they spoke before the king.
\p
\v 23 Then said the king, The one saith, This is my son that liveth, and your son is the dead: and the other saith, Nay; but your
son is the dead, and my son is the living.
\v 24 And the king said, Fetch me a sword. And they brought a sword before the king.
\v 25 And the king said, Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one, and half to the other.
\v 26 Then spoke the woman whose the living child was to the king, for her heart yearned over her son, and she said, Oh, my
lord, give her the living child, and in no wise kill it. But the other said, It shall be neither mine nor thine; divide it.
\v 27 Then the king answered and said, Give her the living child, and in no wise kill it: she is the mother thereof.
\v 28 And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged; and they feared the king: for they saw that the wisdom of
God was in him, to do justice.