\c 8
\p
\v 1 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers’
houses of the children of Israel, to king Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out
of the city of David, which is Zion.
\v 2 And all the men of Israel assembled themselves to king Solomon at the feast, in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh
month.
\v 3 And all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.
\v 4 And they brought up the ark of Jehovah, and the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent; even
these did the priests and the Levites bring up.
\v 5 And king Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, that were assembled to him, were with him before the ark,
sacrificing sheep and oxen, that could not be counted nor numbered for multitude.
\v 6 And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of Jehovah to its place, into the oracle of the house, to the most
holy place, even under the wings of the cherubim.
\v 7 For the cherubim spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim covered the ark and the staves
thereof above.
\v 8 And the staves were so long that the ends of the staves were seen from the holy place before the oracle; but they were not
seen without: and there they are to this day.
\v 9 There was nothing in the ark save the two tables of stone which Moses put there at Horeb, when Jehovah made a covenant
with the children of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
\v 10 And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy place, that the cloud filled the house of Jehovah,
\v 11 so that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud; for the glory of Jehovah filled the house of
Jehovah.
\p
\v 12 Then spoke Solomon, Jehovah has said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
\v 13 I have surely built you a house of habitation, a place for you to dwell in for ever.
\v 14 And the king turned his face about, and blessed all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood.
\v 15 And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who spoke with his mouth to David your father, and has with his
hand fulfilled it, saying,
\v 16 Since the day that I brought forth my people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to
build a house, that my name might be there; but I chose David to be over my people Israel.
\v 17 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
\v 18 But Jehovah said to David my father, Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it
was in your heart:
\v 19 nevertheless you shall not build the house; but your son that shall come forth out of your loins, he shall build the house
for my name.
\v 20 And Jehovah has established his word that he spake; for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and sit on the
throne of Israel, as Jehovah promised, and have built the house for the name of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
\v 21 And there have I set a place for the ark, wherein is the covenant of Jehovah, which he made with our fathers, when he
brought them out of the land of Egypt.
\p
\v 22 And Solomon stood before the altar of Jehovah in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread forth his hands
toward heaven;
\v 23 and he said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, there is no God like thee, in heaven above, or on earth beneath; who keep
covenant and lovingkindness with your servants, that walk before you with all their heart;
\v 24 who have kept with your servant David my father that which you did promise him: yea, you spoke with your mouth, and
have fulfilled it with your hand, as it is this day.
\v 25 Now therefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, keep with your servant David my father that which you have promised him,
saying, There shall not fail you a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your children take heed to their
way, to walk before me as you have walked before me.
\v 26 Now therefore, O God of Israel, let your word, I pray thee, be verified, which you spoke to your servant David my
father.
\p
\v 27 But will God in very deed dwell on the earth? behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less
this house that I have builded!
\v 28 Yet have you respect to the prayer of your servant, and to his supplication, O Jehovah my God, to listen to the cry
and to the prayer which your servant prays before you this day;
\v 29 that your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place whereof you have said, My name shall
be there; to listen to the prayer which your servant shall pray toward this place.
\v 30 And listen you to the supplication of your servant, and of your people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place:
yea, hear you in heaven your dwelling-place; and when you hearest, forgive.
\p
\v 31 If a man sin against his neighbor, and an oath be laid upon him to cause him to swear, and he come
and swear before your altar in this house;
\v 32 then hear you in heaven, and do, and judge your servants, condemning the wicked, to bring his way upon his own head, and
justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
\p
\v 33 When your people Israel are struck down before the enemy, because they have sinned against thee; if they turn again to
you, and confess your name, and pray and make supplication to you in this house:
\v 34 then hear you in heaven, and forgive the sin of your people Israel, and bring them again to the land which you gave
to their fathers.
\p
\v 35 When heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; if they pray toward this place, and
confess your name, and turn from their sin, when you do afflict them:
\v 36 then hear you in heaven, and forgive the sin of your servants, and of your people Israel, when you teachest them the good
way wherein they should walk; and send rain upon your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance.
\p
\v 37 If there be in the land famine, if there be pestilence, if there be blasting
or mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemy besiege them in the land of their cities; whatever
plague, whatever sickness there be;
\v 38 what prayer and supplication soever be made by any man, or
by all your people Israel, who shall know every man the plague of his own heart, and spread forth his hands toward this
house:
\v 39 then hear you in heaven your dwelling-place, and forgive, and do, and render to every man according to all his ways,
whose heart you know; (for you, even you only, know the hearts of all the children of men;)
\v 40 that they may fear you all the days that they live in the land which you gave to our fathers.
\p
\v 41 Moreover concerning the foreigner, that is not of your people Israel, when he shall come out of a far country for your
name’s sake
\v 42 (for they shall hear of your great name, and of your mighty hand, and of your outstretched arm); when he shall come and
pray toward this house;
\v 43 hear you in heaven your dwelling-place, and do according to all that the foreigner calls to you for; that all the
peoples of the earth may know your name, to fear thee, as does your people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I
have built is called by your name.
\p
\v 44 If your people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to Jehovah
toward the city which you have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for your name;
\v 45 then hear you in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
\p
\v 46 If they sin against you (for there is no man that sins not), and you be angry with them, and deliver them to the
enemy, so that they carry them away captive to the land of the enemy, far off or near;
\v 47 yet if they shall bethink themselves in the land whither they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication
to you in the land of them that carried them captive, saying, We have sinned, and have done perversely, we have dealt
wickedly;
\v 48 if they return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their enemies, who carried them
captive, and pray to you toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city which you have chosen, and the
house which I have built for your name:
\v 49 then hear you their prayer and their supplication in heaven your dwelling-place, and maintain their cause;
\v 50 and forgive your people who have sinned against thee, and all their transgressions wherein they have transgressed against
thee; and give them compassion before those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them
\v 51 (for they are your people, and your inheritance, which you brought forth out of Egypt, from the midst of the furnace
of iron);
\v 52 that your eyes may be open to the supplication of your servant, and to the supplication of your people Israel, to
listen to them whenever they cry to thee.
\v 53 For you did separate them from among all the peoples of the earth, to be your inheritance, as you spoke by Moses
your servant, when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 54 And it was so, that, when Solomon had made an end of praying all this prayer and supplication to Jehovah, he arose from
before the altar of Jehovah, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread forth toward heaven.
\v 55 And he stood, and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
\v 56 Blessed be Jehovah, that has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised: there has not failed
one word of all his good promise, which he promised by Moses his servant.
\v 57 Jehovah our God be with us, as he was with our fathers: let him not leave us, nor forsake us;
\v 58 that he may incline our hearts to him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his
ordinances, which he commanded our fathers.
\v 59 And let these my words, wherewith I have made supplication before Jehovah, be near to Jehovah our God day and neart,
that he maintain the cause of his servant, and the cause of his people Israel, as every day shall require;
\v 60 that all the peoples of the earth may know that Jehovah, he is God; there is none else.
\v 61 Let your heart therefore be perfect with Jehovah our God, to walk in his statutes, and to keep his commandments, as at
this day.
\p
\v 62 And the king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before Jehovah.
\v 63 And Solomon offered for the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which he offered to Jehovah, two and twenty thousand oxen,
and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of Jehovah.
\v 64 The same day did the king hallow the middle of the court that was before the house of Jehovah; for there he offered the
burnt-offering, and the meal-offering, and the fat of the peace-offerings, because the brazen altar that was before Jehovah was
too little to receive the burnt-offering, and the meal-offering, and the fat of the peace-offerings.
\v 65 So Solomon held the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the
brook of Egypt, before Jehovah our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen days.
\v 66 On the eighth day he sent the people away; and they blessed the king, and went to their tents joyful and glad of heart
for all the goodness that Jehovah had showed to David his servant, and to Israel his people.