\c 13
\p
\v 1 And, behold, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of Jehovah to Beth-el: and Jeroboam was standing by the
altar to burn incense.
\v 2 And he cried against the altar by the word of Jehovah, and said, O altar, altar, thus says Jehovah: Behold, a son shall
be born to the house of David, Josiah by name; and upon you shall he sacrifice the priests of the high places that burn
incense upon thee, and men’s bones shall they burn upon thee.
\v 3 And he gave a sign the same day, saying, This is the sign which Jehovah has spoken: Behold, the altar shall be rent, and
the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out.
\v 4 And it came to pass, when the king heard the saying of the man of God, which he cried against the altar in Beth-el, that
Jeroboam put forth his hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him. And his hand, which he put forth against him, dried up, so
that he could not draw it back again to him.
\v 5 The altar also was rent, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given by
the word of Jehovah.
\v 6 And the king answered and said to the man of God, Entreat now the favor of Jehovah your God, and pray for me, that my
hand may be restored me again. And the man of God entreated Jehovah, and the king’s hand was restored him again, and became as
it was before.
\v 7 And the king said to the man of God, Come home with me, and refresh thyself, and I will give you a reward.
\v 8 And the man of God said to the king, If you will give me half your house, I will not go in with thee, neither will I eat
bread nor drink water in this place;
\v 9 for so was it charged me by the word of Jehovah, saying, You shall eat no bread, nor drink water, neither return by the
way that you camest.
\v 10 So he went another way, and returned not by the way that he came to Beth-el.
\p
\v 11 Now there lived an old prophet in Beth-el; and one of his sons came and told him all the works that the man of God had
done that day in Beth-el: the words which he had spoken to the king, them also they told to their father.
\v 12 And their father said to them, What way went he? Now his sons had seen what way the man of God went, that came from
Judah.
\v 13 And he said to his sons, Saddle me the ass. So they saddled him the ass; and he rode thereon.
\v 14 And he went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak; and he said to him, Are you the man of God that
came from Judah? And he said, I am.
\v 15 Then he said to him, Come home with me, and eat bread.
\v 16 And he said, I may not return with you, nor go in with you; neither will I eat bread nor drink water with you in this
place:
\v 17 for it was said to me by the word of Jehovah, You shall eat no bread nor drink water there, nor turn again to go by the
way that you camest.
\v 18 And he said to him, I also am a prophet as you art; and an angel spoke to me by the word of Jehovah, saying, Bring
him back with you into your house, that he may eat bread and drink water.
But he lied to him.
\v 19 So he went back with him, and did eat bread in his house, and drank water.
\p
\v 20 And it came to pass, as they sat at the table, that the word of Jehovah came to the prophet that brought him back;
\v 21 and he cried to the man of God that came from Judah, saying, Thus says Jehovah, Forasmuch as you have been
disobedient to the mouth of Jehovah, and have not kept the commandment which Jehovah your God commanded thee,
\v 22 but came back, and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which he said to thee, Eat no bread, and drink no
water; your body shall not come to the sepulchre of your fathers.
\v 23 And it came to pass, after he had eaten bread, and after he had drunk, that he saddled for him the ass,
to wit, for the prophet whom he had brought back.
\v 24 And when he was gone, a lion met him by the way, and killed him: and his body was cast in the way, and the ass stood by it;
the lion also stood by the body.
\v 25 And, behold, men passed by, and saw the body cast in the way, and the lion standing by the body; and they came and told
it in the city where the old prophet dwelt.
\p
\v 26 And when the prophet that brought him back from the way heard thereof, he said, It is the man of God, who was disobedient
to the mouth of Jehovah: therefore Jehovah has delivered him to the lion, which has torn him, and slain him, according to
the word of Jehovah, which he spoke to him.
\v 27 And he spoke to his sons, saying, Saddle me the ass. And they saddled it.
\v 28 And he went and found his body cast in the way, and the ass and the lion standing by the body: the lion had not eaten the
body, nor torn the ass.
\v 29 And the prophet took up the body of the man of God, and laid it upon the ass, and brought it back; and he came to the
city of the old prophet, to mourn, and to bury him.
\v 30 And he laid his body in his own grave; and they mourned over him,
saying, Alas, my brother!
\v 31 And it came to pass, after he had buried him, that he spoke to his sons, saying, When I am dead, then bury me in the
sepulchre wherein the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones.
\v 32 For the saying which he cried by the word of Jehovah against the altar in Beth-el, and against all the houses of the high
places which are in the cities of Samaria, shall surely come to pass.
\p
\v 33 After this thing Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, but made again from among all the people priests of the high
places: whoever would, he consecrated him, that there might be priests of the high places.
\v 34 And this thing became sin to the house of Jeroboam, even to cut it off, and to destroy it from off the face of the
earth.