\c 14
\p
\v 1 At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.
\v 2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise thyself, that you be not known to be the wife of
Jeroboam; and get you to Shiloh: behold, there is Ahijah the prophet, who spoke concerning me that I should be king over this
people.
\v 3 And take with you ten loaves, and cakes, and a cruse of honey, and go to him: he will tell you what shall become of the
child.
\v 4 And Jeroboam’s wife did so, and arose, and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could not see; for
his eyes were set by reason of his age.
\v 5 And Jehovah said to Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam comes to inquire of you concerning her son; for he is sick:
thus and thus shall you say to her; for it will be, when she comes in, that she will feign herself to be another woman.
\p
\v 6 And it was so, when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, that he said, Come in, you wife of
Jeroboam; why feignest you yourself to be another? for I am sent to you with heavy tidings.
\v 7 Go, tell Jeroboam, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel: Forasmuch as I exalted you from among the people, and made you
prince over my people Israel,
\v 8 and tore the kingdom away from the house of David, and gave it thee; and yet you have not been as my servant David, who
kept my commandments, and who followed me with all his heart, to do that only which was right in mine eyes,
\v 9 but have done evil above all that were before you, and have gone and made you other gods, and molten images, to provoke
me to anger, and have cast me behind your back:
\v 10 therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the house of Jeroboam, and will cut off from Jeroboam every man-child, him that
is shut up and him that is left at large in Israel, and will utterly sweep away the house of Jeroboam, as a man sweepeth away
dung, till it be all gone.
\v 11 Him that dieth of Jeroboam in the city shall the dogs eat; and him that dieth in the field shall the birds of the heavens
eat: for Jehovah has spoken it.
\v 12 Arise you therefore, get you to your house: and when your feet enter into the city, the child shall die.
\v 13 And all Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him; for he only of Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there
is found some good thing toward Jehovah, the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam.
\v 14 Moreover Jehovah will raise him up a king over Israel, who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam that day: but what? even
now.
\v 15 For Jehovah will strike Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and he will root up Israel out of this good land which
he gave to their fathers, and will scatter them beyond the River, because they have made their Asherim, provoking Jehovah to
anger.
\v 16 And he will give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam, which he has sinned, and wherewith he has made Israel to
sin.
\p
\v 17 And Jeroboam’s wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah:
and as she came to the threshold of the house, the child died.
\v 18 And all Israel buried him, and mourned for him, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spoke by his servant Ahijah
the prophet.
\p
\v 19 And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred, and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Israel.
\v 20 And the days which Jeroboam reigned were two and twenty years: and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned
in his stead.
\p
\v 21 And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which Jehovah had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there:
and his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess.
\v 22 And Judah did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they provoked him to jealousy with their sins which they
committed, above all that their fathers had done.
\v 23 For they also built them high places, and pillars, and Asherim, on every high hill, and under every green tree;
\v 24 and there were also sodomites in the land: they did according to all the abominations of the nations which Jehovah drove
out before the children of Israel.
\p
\v 25 And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem;
\v 26 and he took away the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king’s house; he even took away all: and
he took away all the shields of gold which Solomon had made.
\v 27 And king Rehoboam made in their stead shields of brass, and committed them to the hands of the captains of the guard, who
kept the door of the king’s house.
\v 28 And it was so, that, as often as the king went into the house of Jehovah, the guard bare them, and brought them back into
the guard-chamber.
\p
\v 29 Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Judah?
\v 30 And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.
\v 31 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and his mother’s name was
Naamah the Ammonitess. And Abijam his son reigned in his stead.