\c 17
\p
\v 1 And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the sojourners of Gilead, said to Ahab, As Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth,
before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.
\v 2 And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
\v 3 Get you hence, and turn you eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, that is before the Jordan.
\v 4 And it shall be, that you shall drink of the brook; and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.
\v 5 So he went and did according to the word of Jehovah; for he went and lived by the brook Cherith, that is before the
Jordan.
\v 6 And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook.
\v 7 And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land.
\p
\v 8 And the word of Jehovah came to him, saying,
\v 9 Arise, get you to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there: behold, I have commanded a widow there to sustain
thee.
\v 10 So he arose and went to Zarephath; and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks:
and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.
\v 11 And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in your hand.
\v 12 And she said, As Jehovah your God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal in the jar, and a little oil in the
cruse: and, behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it, and die.
\v 13 And Elijah said to her, Fear not; go and do as you have said; but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it
forth to me, and afterward make for you and for your son.
\v 14 For thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, The jar of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until
the day that Jehovah sends rain upon the earth.
\v 15 And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and her house, did eat
many days.
\v 16 The jar of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of Jehovah, which he spoke by
Elijah.
\p
\v 17 And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness
was so sore, that there was no breath left in him.
\v 18 And she said to Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O you man of God? you are come to me to bring my sin to
remembrance, and to kill my son!
\v 19 And he said to her, Give me your son. And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into the chamber, where he
abode, and laid him upon his own bed.
\v 20 And he cried to Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah my God, have you also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by
slaying her son?
\v 21 And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried to Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah my God, I pray thee, let
this child’s soul come into him again.
\v 22 And Jehovah listened to the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived.
\v 23 And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him to his mother; and
Elijah said, See, your son liveth.
\v 24 And the woman said to Elijah, Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of Jehovah in your mouth is truth.