\c 19
\p
\v 1 And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword.
\v 2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I make not your life as the
life of one of them by to-morrow about this time.
\v 3 And when he saw that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beer-sheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his
servant there.
\v 4 But he himself went a day’s journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper-tree: and he requested for
himself that he might die, and said, It is enough; now, O Jehovah, take away my life; for I am not better than my fathers.
\v 5 And he lay down and slept under a juniper-tree; and, behold, an angel touched him, and said to him, Arise and eat.
\v 6 And he looked, and, behold, there was at his head a cake baken on the coals, and a cruse of water. And he did eat and
drink, and laid him down again.
\v 7 And the angel of Jehovah came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too
great for thee.
\v 8 And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb the
mount of God.
\p
\v 9 And he came there to a cave, and lodged there; and, behold, the word of Jehovah came to him, and he said to him,
What do you here, Elijah?
\v 10 And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah, the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken your
covenant, thrown down your altars, and slain your prophets with the sword: and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life,
to take it away.
\v 11 And he said, Go forth, and stand upon the mount before Jehovah. And, behold, Jehovah passed by, and a great and strong
wind tore the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before Jehovah; but Jehovah was not in the wind: and after the wind an
earthquake; but Jehovah was not in the earthquake:
\v 12 and after the earthquake a fire; but Jehovah was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.
\v 13 And it was so, when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entrance of
the cave. And, behold, there came a voice to him, and said, What do you here, Elijah?
\v 14 And he said, I have been very jealous for Jehovah, the God of hosts; for the children of Israel have forsaken your
covenant, thrown down your altars, and slain your prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life,
to take it away.
\p
\v 15 And Jehovah said to him, Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus: and when you comest, you shall anoint
Hazael to be king over Syria;
\v 16 and Jehu the son of Nimshi shall you anoint to be king over Israel; and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah shall
you anoint to be prophet in your room.
\v 17 And it shall come to pass, that him that escapes from the sword of Hazael shall Jehu slay; and him that escapes from
the sword of Jehu shall Elisha slay.
\v 18 Yet will I leave me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth
which has not kissed him.
\p
\v 19 So he departed thence, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing, with twelve yoke
of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth: and Elijah passed over to him, and cast his mantle upon him.
\v 20 And he left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will
follow thee. And he said to him, Go back again; for what have I done to thee?
\v 21 And he returned from following him, and took the yoke of oxen, and killed them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments
of the oxen, and gave to the people, and they did eat. Then he arose, and went after Elijah, and ministered to him.