\c 20
\p
\v 1 And Ben-hadad the king of Syria gathered all his host together; and there were thirty and two kings with him, and horses
and chariots: and he went up and besieged Samaria, and fought against it.
\v 2 And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel, into the city, and said to him, Thus says Ben-hadad,
\v 3 Your silver and your gold is mine; your wives also and your children, even the goodliest, are mine.
\v 4 And the king of Israel answered and said, It is according to your saying, my lord, O king; I am thine, and all that I have.
\v 5 And the messengers came again, and said, Thus speaks Ben-hadad, saying, I sent indeed to thee, saying, You shall
deliver me your silver, and your gold, and your wives, and your children;
\v 6 but I will send my servants to you to-morrow about this time, and they shall search your house, and the houses of your
servants; and it shall be, that whatever is pleasant in your eyes, they shall put it in their hand, and take it away.
\p
\v 7 Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeks
mischief: for he sent to me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, and for my gold; and I denied him not.
\v 8 And all the elders and all the people said to him, Listen you not, neither consent.
\v 9 Wherefore he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, Tell my lord the king, All that you did send for to your servant at
the first I will do; but this thing I may not do. And the messengers departed, and brought him word again.
\v 10 And Ben-hadad sent to him, and said, The gods do so to me, and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for
handfuls for all the people that follow me.
\v 11 And the king of Israel answered and said, Tell him, Let not him that girdeth on
his armor boast himself as he that puts it off.
\v 12 And it came to pass, when Ben-hadad heard this message, as he was drinking, he and the kings, in the pavilions,
that he said to his servants, Set yourselves in array. And they set
themselves in array against the city.
\p
\v 13 And, behold, a prophet came near to Ahab king of Israel, and said, Thus says Jehovah, Hast you seen all this great
multitude? behold, I will deliver it into your hand this day; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 14 And Ahab said, By whom? And he said, Thus says Jehovah, By the young men of the princes of the provinces. Then he said,
Who shall begin the battle? And he answered, Thou.
\v 15 Then he mustered the young men of the princes of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty-two: and after them
he mustered all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven thousand.
\p
\v 16 And they went out at noon. But Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty and
two kings that helped him.
\v 17 And the young men of the princes of the provinces went out first; and Ben-hadad sent out, and they told him, saying,
There are men come out from Samaria.
\v 18 And he said, Whether they are come out for peace, take them alive; or whether they are come out for war, take them alive.
\v 19 So these went out of the city, the young men of the princes of the provinces, and the army which followed them.
\v 20 And they killed every one his man; and the Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them: and Ben-hadad the king of Syria escaped
on a horse with horsemen.
\v 21 And the king of Israel went out, and struck the horses and chariots, and killed the Syrians with a great slaughter.
\p
\v 22 And the prophet came near to the king of Israel, and said to him, Go, strengthen thyself, and mark, and see what you
doest; for at the return of the year the king of Syria will come up against thee.
\v 23 And the servants of the king of Syria said to him, Their god is a god of the hills; therefore they were stronger than
we: but let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.
\v 24 And do this thing: take the kings away, every man out of his place, and put captains in their room;
\v 25 and number you an army, like the army that you have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot; and we will fight
against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they. And he listened to their voice, and did so.
\p
\v 26 And it came to pass at the return of the year, that Ben-hadad mustered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight
against Israel.
\v 27 And the children of Israel were mustered, and were victualled, and went against them: and the children of Israel encamped
before them like two little flocks of kids; but the Syrians filled the country.
\v 28 And a man of God came near and spoke to the king of Israel, and said, Thus says Jehovah, Because the Syrians have
said, Jehovah is a god of the hills, but he is not a god of the valleys; therefore will I deliver all this great multitude into
your hand, and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 29 And they encamped one over against the other seven days. And so it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined;
and the children of Israel killed of the Syrians a hundred thousand footmen in one day.
\v 30 But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and the wall fell upon twenty and seven thousand men that were left. And
Ben-hadad fled, and came into the city, into an inner chamber.
\p
\v 31 And his servants said to him, Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings: let
us, we pray thee, put sackcloth on our loins, and ropes upon our heads, and go out to the king of Israel: perhaps he will
save your life.
\v 32 So they girded sackcloth on their loins, and put ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel, and
said, Your servant Ben-hadad saith, I pray thee, let me live. And he said, Is he yet alive? he is my brother.
\v 33 Now the men observed diligently, and hasted to catch whether it were his mind; and they said, Your brother Ben-hadad. Then
he said, Go ye, bring him. Then Ben-hadad came forth to him; and he caused him to come up into the chariot.
\v 34 And Ben-hadad said to him, The cities which my father took from your father I will restore; and you shall
make streets for you in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria. And I,
said Ahab, will let you go with this covenant. So he made a covenant with him, and let him go.
\p
\v 35 And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said to his fellow by the word of Jehovah, Strike me, I pray thee. And the
man refused to strike him.
\v 36 Then said he to him, Because you have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, behold, as soon as you are depareed from me, a
lion shall kill thee. And as soon as he was departed from him, a lion found him, and killed him.
\v 37 Then he found another man, and said, Strike me, I pray thee. And the man struck him, striking and wounding him.
\v 38 So the prophet departed, and waited for the king by the way, and disguised himself with his headband over his eyes.
\v 39 And as the king passed by, he cried to the king; and he said, Your servant went out into the midst of the battle; and,
behold, a man turned aside, and brought a man to me, and said, Keep this man: if by any means he be missing, then shall your
life be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver.
\v 40 And as your servant was busy here and there, he was gone. And the king of Israel said to him, So shall your judgment be;
yourself have decided it.
\v 41 And he hasted, and took the headband away from his eyes; and the king of Israel discerned him that he was of the
prophets.
\v 42 And he said to him, Thus says Jehovah, Because you have let go out of your hand the man whom I had devoted to
destruction, therefore your life shall go for his life, and your people for his people.
\v 43 And the king of Israel went to his house heavy and displeased, and came to Samaria.