\c 21
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass after these things, that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the
palace of Ahab king of Samaria.
\v 2 And Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near
to my house; and I will give you for it a better vineyard than it: or, if it seem good to you, I will give you the worth
of it in money.
\v 3 And Naboth said to Ahab, Jehovah forbid it me, that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to thee.
\v 4 And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him; for
he had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he laid him down upon his bed, and turned away his face,
and would eat no bread.
\p
\v 5 But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said to him, Why is your spirit so sad, that you eatest no bread?
\v 6 And he said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite, and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money; or
else, if it please you, I will give you another vineyard for it: and he answered, I will not give you my vineyard.
\v 7 And Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you now govern the kingdom of Israel? arise, and eat bread, and let your heart be
merry: I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.
\v 8 So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name, and sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters to the elders and to the nobles
that were in his city, and that lived with Naboth.
\v 9 And she wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people:
\v 10 and set two men, base fellows, before him, and let them bear witness against him, saying, You did curse God and the
king. And then carry him out, and stone him to death.
\p
\v 11 And the men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent to them,
according as it was written in the letters which she had sent to them.
\v 12 They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people.
\v 13 And the two men, the base fellows, came in and sat before him: and the base fellows bare witness against him, even
against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth did curse God and the king. Then they carried him forth out of
the city, and stoned him to death with stones.
\v 14 Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned, and is dead.
\v 15 And it came to pass, when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned, and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take
possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money; for Naboth is not alive, but
dead.
\v 16 And it came to pass, when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the
Jezreelite, to take possession of it.
\p
\v 17 And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
\v 18 Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, who lives in Samaria: behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he
is gone down to take possession of it.
\v 19 And you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says Jehovah, Hast you killed, and also taken possession? And you shall
speak to him, saying, Thus says Jehovah, In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick your blood, even
thine.
\v 20 And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast you found me, O mine enemy? And he answered, I have found thee, because you have sold
yourself to do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah.
\v 21 Behold, I will bring evil upon you, and will utterly sweep you away and will cut off from Ahab every man-child, and him
that is shut up and him that is left at large in Israel:
\v 22 and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah for
the provocation wherewith you have provoked me to anger, and have made Israel to sin.
\v 23 And of Jezebel also spoke Jehovah, saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the rampart of Jezreel.
\v 24 Him that dieth of Ahab in the city the dogs shall eat; and him that dieth in the field shall the birds of the heavens
eat.
\v 25 (But there was none like to Ahab, who did sell himself to do that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, whom Jezebel
his wife stirred up.
\v 26 And he did very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites did, whom Jehovah cast out before the
children of Israel.)
\p
\v 27 And it came to pass, when Ahab heard those words, that he tore his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted,
and lay in sackcloth, and went softly.
\v 28 And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
\v 29 Seest you how Ahab humbles himself before me? because he humbles himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his
days; but in his son’s day will I bring the evil upon his house.