\c 22
\p
\v 1 And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel.
\v 2 And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel.
\v 3 And the king of Israel said to his servants, Know you that Ramoth-gilead is ours, and we are still, and take it not out
of the hand of the king of Syria?
\v 4 And he said to Jehoshaphat, Wilt you go with me to battle to Ramoth-gilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel,
I am as you art, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.
\p
\v 5 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, Inquire first, I pray thee, for the word of Jehovah.
\v 6 Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them, Shall I go against
Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for the Lord will deliver it into the hand of the king.
\v 7 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of Jehovah besides, that we may inquire of him?
\v 8 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of Jehovah, Micaiah the son of
Imlah: but I hate him; for he does not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.
\v 9 Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imlah.
\v 10 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, in an
open place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
\v 11 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron, and said, Thus says Jehovah, With these shall you push the
Syrians, until they be consumed.
\v 12 And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and prosper; for Jehovah will deliver it into the
hand of the king.
\p
\v 13 And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spoke to him, saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets
declare good to the king with one mouth: let your word, I pray thee, be like the word of one of them, and speak you
good.
\v 14 And Micaiah said, As Jehovah liveth, what Jehovah says to me, that will I speak.
\v 15 And when he was come to the king, the king said to him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we
forbear? And he answered him, Go up and prosper; and Jehovah will deliver it into the hand of the king.
\v 16 And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure you that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name
of Jehovah?
\v 17 And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd: and Jehovah said, These have
no master; let them return every man to his house in peace.
\v 18 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?
\v 19 And Micaiah said, Therefore hear you the word of Jehovah: I saw Jehovah sitting on his throne, and all the
host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left.
\v 20 And Jehovah said, Who shall entice Ahab, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one said on this manner; and
another said on that manner.
\v 21 And there came forth a spirit, and stood before Jehovah, and said, I will entice him.
\v 22 And Jehovah said to him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his
prophets. And he said, You shall entice him, and shall prevail also: go forth, and do so.
\v 23 Now therefore, behold, Jehovah has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; and Jehovah has spoken
evil concerning thee.
\p
\v 24 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and struck Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of
Jehovah from me to speak to thee?
\v 25 And Micaiah said, Behold, you shall see on that day, when you shall go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.
\v 26 And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s
son;
\v 27 and say, Thus says the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of
affliction, until I come in peace.
\v 28 And Micaiah said, If you return at all in peace, Jehovah has not spoken by me. And he said, Hear, you peoples, all of
you.
\p
\v 29 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
\v 30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and go into the battle; but put you on your robes.
And the king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle.
\v 31 Now the king of Syria had commanded the thirty and two captains of his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor
great, save only with the king of Israel.
\v 32 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel;
and they turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out.
\v 33 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from
pursuing him.
\v 34 And a certain man drew his bow at a venture, and struck the king of Israel between the joints of the armor: wherefore he
said to the driver of his chariot, Turn your hand, and carry me out of the host; for I am sore wounded.
\v 35 And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even; and
the blood ran out of the wound into the bottom of the chariot.
\v 36 And there went a cry throughout the host about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to
his country.
\p
\v 37 So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried the king in Samaria.
\v 38 And they washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked up his blood (now the harlots washed themselves
there); according to the word of Jehovah which he spake.
\v 39 Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he built, and all the cities that he
built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
\v 40 So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.
\p
\v 41 And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.
\v 42 Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And
his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
\v 43 And he walked in all the way of Asa his father; He turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of
Jehovah: howbeit the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.
\v 44 And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.
\p
\v 45 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he showed, and how he warred, are they not written in the
book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
\v 46 And the remnant of the sodomites, that remained in the days of his father Asa, he put away out of the land.
\v 47 And there was no king in Edom: a deputy was king.
\v 48 Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they went not; for the ships were broken at Ezion-geber.
\v 49 Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab to Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with your servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat
would not.
\v 50 And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; And Jehoram his
son reigned in his stead.
\p
\v 51 Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and
he reigned two years over Israel.
\v 52 And he did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his
mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, wherein he made Israel to sin.
\v 53 And he served Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger Jehovah, the God of Israel, according to all that his
father had done.