\c 3
\s Philippians 3:1
\sr As for the other matters, continue to rejoice and know that it is not tiresome for me and it is safe for you to mention them again.
\p
\v 1 Now there are other things that I want to write about. My fellow believers, continue to rejoice because you belong to the Lord. Though I will now write to you about those same matters that I mentioned to you before, this is not tiresome for me, and it will protect you from those who would harm you spiritually.
\s Philippians 3:2-4a
\sr Beware of those unholy people who will harm you spiritually by insisting that you must be circumcised in order to become God's people.
\p
\v 2 Beware of those people who are dangerous .
\v 3 Those people think that they are God's people because someone has circumcised them. But we, not they, are truly God's people .
\v 4 We do not trust in those rituals to make us acceptable to God, although I could very well do that if it would be useful for me.
\s Philippians 3:4b-6
\sr Since I was circumcised properly and have a purely Hebrew ancestry, and since I kept the Jewish laws blamelessly, I could rely upon what I have done and who I am better than anyone else could, if it were beneficial for my salvation.
\p In fact, if I could benefit from it for my salvation, I could rely upon what I have done and who I am  more than anyone else could. I will tell you why.
\v 5 I was circumcised  when I was one week old. I am from the people of Israel. I am from the tribe of Benjamin. I am completely Hebrew in every way. While I was a member of the Pharisee sect, I strictly obeyed the laws that God gave Moses.
\v 6 I was so zealous to make people obey those laws that I caused the people who believe in Christ to suffer because I thought they were trying to abolish those laws. Indeed, as far as my obeying those laws is concerned, no one could have accused me by saying that I had disobeyed any of those laws.
\s Philippians 3:7-11
\sr I now consider all these advantages that I once supposed would help me to be worthless, and I consider everything else as well to be worthless, because I want to know Christ, to be united with him, and to be made righteous through trusting in Christ alone.
\p
\v 7 Nevertheless, all such things as those, which I used to consider to be useful to me, those very things I now consider worthless, because I want to know Christ .
\v 8 More than that, I consider all things to be worthless, compared to how great it is to know Christ Jesus my Lord. Because I want to know him better ,
\v 9 and in order that I may completely belong to him. It was not as a result of my obeying the laws he gave Moses that God erased the record of my sins. Instead, it is because I have trusted in Christ that God has declared the guilt for my sins to be ended and he enables me to act righteously. It is God himself who has erased the record of my sins, and he enables me to act righteously, only because I have trusted in Christ.
\v 10 I want to know Christ better and better. Particularly, I want to continually experience his working powerfully in me, just like God worked powerfully when he caused Christ to become alive after he died. I also want to be continually willing to suffer in order that I may obey God, just like Christ suffered in order that he might obey God. I also want to be completely willing to die for Christ, even as he died for me,
\v 11 because I expect that, as a result of God's goodness, he will cause me to live again after I have died.
\s Philippians 3:12-16
\sr Since you desire to be perfected and since you have my example of not considering that I am already perfect, but of constantly striving to become more and more like Christ, follow my example.
\p
\v 12 I do not claim that I have already become completely like Christ Jesus; that is, I have not already become all that God intends me to be . But I earnestly try to become more and more like Christ, because he chose me in order that I might become like him.
\v 13 My fellow believers, I certainly do not consider that I have already become completely like Christ. But I am like a runner. A runner does not look backward  forward as he runs straight toward the goal in order that he might win the race and get the prize. Similarly, I do not think about what I have already done.
\v 14 Instead, I concentrate only on continuing to become more and more like Christ right up to the end of my life  me to receive a reward from him in heaven.
\v 15 So, all of us who are spiritually mature should think this same way. If any of you do not think this same way regarding what I have written here, God will reveal this to you.
\v 16 What is important is that we must conduct our lives according to what God has already revealed to us.
\s Philippians 3:17-21
\sr Imitate me and those who live as I do. Remember that there are many people who are bad examples, as shown by their lustful behavior, wanting to do what their bodies desire. But as for us, Christ will transform our weak bodies to be like his glorious heavenly body.
\p
\v 17 My fellow believers, all of you should unitedly imitate me, and observe those people who act as I do, in order that you may imitate them also.
\v 18 Keep in mind that there are many people who say that they believe in Christ, but who act in such a way that shows that they are opposed to the teaching about Christ dying on the cross . I have told you about those people many times before, and now I am sad, even crying, as I tell you about them again.
\v 19 God will severely punish them. The things their bodies desire  think about.
\v 20 But remember that we are citizens of heaven. And we eagerly wait for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, to return from there.
\v 21 By the power that enables him to put everything under his own control, he will change our weak bodies to become like his glorious body.
