\c 4
\s Philippians 4:1
\sr On the basis of all that I have told you, continue to believe firmly in the Lord Jesus Christ according to what I have just taught you, and act accordingly.
\p
\v 1 My fellow believers, I love you, and I long for you. You make me happy  you. Dear friends, on the basis of all that I have told you, continue to believe firmly in the Lord according to what I have just taught you.
\s Philippians 4:2-3
\sr I urge Euodia and Syntyche to be reconciled with each other; help them in this since they have both proclaimed the good news faithfully together with me and my other fellow workers.
\p
\v 2 I urge you, Syntyche, to again have a peaceful relationship with each other, because you both have a relationship with the Lord.
\v 3 And, my faithful comrade. They have faithfully proclaimed that message together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book in which God has written the names of all those people who will live forever.
\s Philippians 4:4-7
\sr The Lord is near. Always rejoice, be gentle to everyone. Do not worry about anything, but pray to God instead. As a result, God will grant you profound peace.
\p
\v 4 Because you have a relationship with the Lord, always rejoice! I say again, rejoice!
\v 5 Act in such a way that everyone can know that you are gentle. The Lord is near .
\v 6 Do not worry about anything. Instead, in every situation, pray to God, tell him what you need, and ask him to help you . Also thank him for what he does for you.
\v 7 As a result, God will enable you not to worry about anything  how you can be so peaceful in such difficult circumstances!
\s Philippians 4:8-9
\sr Continually think about everything that is good and praiseworthy. Continually practice whatever you have learned from me. As a result, God will be with you and give you inner peace.
\p
\v 8 My fellow believers, there is one more thing I want you to do. Whatever is true, whatever is worthy of respect, whatever is right, whatever is morally pure, whatever is pleasing, whatever is admirable, whatever is good, whatever deserves praise, those are the things that you should continually think about.
\v 9 Those things that I have taught you and that you have received from me, those things that you have heard me say and that you have seen me do, those are the things that you yourselves should continually do. As a result of your doing those things, God, the one who causes us to have inner peace, will be with you.
\s Philippians 4:10-14
\sr I rejoice greatly because you have once again demonstrated your concern for me by giving to meet my needs, though it is true that Christ enables me to be content in every situation.
\p
\v 10 I rejoice greatly and thank the Lord because now, after some time, by sending money to me you have once again shown that you are concerned about me . Indeed, you were concerned about me all the time, but you had no opportunity to show that you were concerned about me.
\v 11 I am saying this not because I am concerned that I lack things that I need. In fact, I have learned to be content in whatever situation I am.
\v 12 Specifically, I know how to be content when I do not have what I need, and I know how to be content when I have plenty. I have learned how to be content in any and every situation  of what I need, and I have learned how to be content when I lack things.
\v 13 I am able to cope with every situation because Christ gives me the strength to do that.
\v 14 Nevertheless, you did very well in that you helped me  while I have been suffering hardship.
\s Philippians 4:15-17
\sr You Philippians know that in the early days of preaching the good news in your region you were the only congregation that sent me money. I do not say this because I desire your gifts, but I desire that God would abundantly bless you for aiding me.
\p
\v 15 My friends there at Philippi, you yourselves know that during the time I first proclaimed the message about Christ to you, when I left there to go to Macedonia province, you were the only group of believers  in order that I might proclaim that message to others just like I did for you.
\v 16 Even when I was in Thessalonica city, you sent money  in order to supply what I needed.
\v 17 I say this, not because I desire that you give me money now. Instead, I desire that God will abundantly bless  you as a result of your helping me.
\s Philippians 4:18-20
\sr I have received your very generous gift; God is very pleased with this gift, and he will abundantly supply your every need also. Let us praise him forever.
\p
\v 18 I have received a very generous gift .
\v 19 Moreover, God, whom I serve, has an unlimited supply of everything that we need. And as a result, because of your relationship with Christ Jesus, he will completely supply everything that you need.
\v 20 So, praise God our Father forever and ever! Amen!
\s Philippians 4:21-22
\sr All of God's people here, including those who serve God with me and those who work at the emperor's palace, join me in greeting each one of God's people there.
\p
\v 21 Greet for me.
\v 22 All of God's people here send their greetings to you. Especially the fellow believers who work in the palace of the emperor send their greetings to you.
\s Philippians 4:23
\sr May the Lord Jesus Christ bless you.
\p
\v 23 My desire isthat our Lord Jesus Christ will continue to act kindly toward you all .
