\c 4
\p
\v 1 Let a man so account of us, as of ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
\v 2 Here, moreover, it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.
\v 3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man’s judgment: yea, I judge not mine own self.
\v 4 For I know nothing against myself; yet am I not hereby justified: but he that judges me is the Lord.
\v 5 Wherefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness,
and make manifest the counsels of the hearts; and then shall each man have his praise from God.
\p
\v 6 Now these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and Apollos for your sakes; that in us you might learn
not to go beyond the things which are written; that no one of you be puffed up for the one against the other.
\v 7 For who makes you to differ? and what have you that you did not receive? but if you did receive it, why do you
glory as if you had not received it?
\v 8 Already are you filled, already you are become rich, you have come to reign without us: youa and I would that you did reign,
that we also might reign with you.
\v 9 For, I think, God has set forth us the apostles last of all, as men doomed to death: for we are made a spectacle to the
world, both to angels and men.
\v 10 We are fools for Christ’s sake, but you are wise in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you have glory, but we have
dishonor.
\v 11 Even to this present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain
dwelling-place;
\v 12 and we toil, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we endure;
\v 13 being defamed, we entreat: we are made as the filth of the world, the offscouring of all things, even until now.
\p
\v 14 I write not these things to shame you, but to admonish you as my beloved children.
\v 15 For though you have ten thousand tutors in Christ, yout have you
not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I became the father of you through the gospel.
\v 16 I beseech you therefore, be you imitators of me.
\v 17 For this cause have I sent to you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who shall put you in
remembrance of my ways which are in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in every church.
\v 18 Now some are puffed up, as though I were not coming to you.
\v 19 But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will; and I will know, not the word of them that are puffed up, but the
power.
\v 20 For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.
\v 21 What will ye? shall I come to you with a rod, or in love and a spirit of gentleness?