\c 6
\p
\v 1 Dare any of you, having a matter against his neighbor, go to law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?
\v 2 Or know you not that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the
smallest matters?
\v 3 Know you not that we shall judge angels? how much more, things that pertain to this life?
\v 4 If then you have to judge things pertaining to this life, do you set them to judge who are of no account in the church?
\v 5 I say this to move you to shame. What, cannot there be
found among you one wise man who shall be able to decide between his brethren,
\v 6 but brother goes to law with brother, and that before unbelievers?
\v 7 Nay, already it is altogether a defect in you, that you have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather take wrong? why not
rather be defrauded?
\v 8 Nay, but you yourselves do wrong, and defraud, and that your
brethren.
\v 9 Or know you not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor
idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with men,
\v 10 nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
\v 11 And such were some of you: but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ, and in the Spirit of our God.
\p
\v 12 All things are lawful for me; but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful for me; but I will not be brought
under the power of any.
\v 13 Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall bring to nothing both it and them. But the body is not for
fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body:
\v 14 and God both raised the Lord, and will raise up us through his power.
\v 15 Know you not that your bodies are members of Christ? shall I then take away the members of Christ, and make them members
of a harlot? God forbid.
\v 16 Or know you not that he that is joined to a harlot is one body? for, The twain, says he, shall become one flesh.
\v 17 But he that is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
\v 18 Flee fornication. Every sin that a man does is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sins against his
own body.
\v 19 Or know you not that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which you have from God? and you are not your
own;
\v 20 for you were bought with a price: glorify God therefore in your body.