\c 9
\s1 Daniel's prayer
\p
\v 1 Now I am going to tell you about what happened when Darius, who was from the Mede people-group and who was the son of Xerxes, ruled as the king of Babylonia.
\v 2 During the first year that he was the king, I, Daniel, was studying the message that Yahweh had given to the prophet Jeremiah. In that message Jeremiah had written that Jerusalem would be destroyed and remain ruined for seventy years.
\v 3 After I read that, I pleaded to Yahweh my God to help us, praying and fasting. While doing that, I was wearing rough cloth and sitting in ashes to show that I was very sad about what had happened to us.
\p
\v 4 I confessed the sins that we had committed, and this is what I prayed:
\b
\pi Lord, you are great and awesome! You have faithfully done what you said that you would do for us. You faithfully love those who love you and who do what you have commanded that they should do.
\v 5 But we Israelites have sinned. We have done things that are wrong. We have done wicked things, and we have rebelled against you. We have turned away from obeying your commands .
\v 6 Your prophets spoke for you  those prophets.
\pi
\v 7 Lord, you always do what is righteous to you.
\v 8 Lord, we and our kings and our other rulers and our other ancestors have done very shameful things and have sinned against you.
\v 9 Although we have rebelled against you, you act mercifully toward us and you are willing to forgive us.
\v 10 Yahweh our God, when you gave your laws to your prophets who served you, and they told us to conduct our lives according to those laws, we did not listen to you.
\v 11 All of us Israelite people have disobeyed your laws, and we have turned away from obeying what you said. We have sinned against you. As a result, you have caused us to experience the terrible things that your servant Moses said would happen to us if we sinned against you.
\pi
\v 12 You warned us and our rulers that you would punish Jerusalem severely by causing a great disaster there, a disaster that would be worse than any disaster that any other city had ever experienced, and you have done what you said that you would do.
\v 13 You punished us just like Moses wrote that you would do. But Yahweh our God, we still have not tried, by turning away from our sinning and by heeding your truth, to persuade you to act mercifully toward us.
\v 14 So, because we did not obey you, you prepared to punish us, and then you did punish us, because you always do what is righteous.
\pi
\v 15 Lord our God, you brought your people out of Egypt by your great power , and by doing that you have caused people from that time until the present time to know that you are great [IDI] even though we have sinned and done wicked things.
\v 16 Lord, Jerusalem is your city, and your temple was built there on your sacred hill. Now all the people who live in nearby countries, we request you to not be angry with Jerusalem any longer.
\pi
\v 17 Lord our God, listen to what I am praying and pleading for you to do. For your own sake, act kindly [IDI] concerning your temple, which was destroyed by the armies of Babylonia.
\v 18 My God, listen to my prayer. Look at us and see our troubles, and see that this city that belongs to you .
\v 19 Lord, listen to us! Lord, forgive us! Lord, this city and these people belong to you, so we plead with you to heed what we are saying and act to help us right now, for your own sake!
\s1 Gabriel told what would happen in the future
\p
\v 20 I continued praying and confessing the sins that I and my people had committed, and pleading with Yahweh my God that he would restore the temple on the sacred hill in Jerusalem.
\v 21 While I was praying, Gabriel, the angel whom I had seen in the vision previously, came flying rapidly to me, at the time in the evening when the priests offered sacrifices.
\v 22 He said to me, "Daniel, I have come to you to enable you to understand  clearly the message that God gave to Jeremiah.
\v 23 When you began to plead with God, he gave me a message to give to you. He loves you very much, so he has sent me to tell you what he said to me. So now pay attention in order that you may understand the meaning of what he revealed to Jeremiah.
\p
\v 24 God has determined, and the sacred temple will be dedicated to God again.
\p
\v 25 You need to know and understand this: There will be 49 years from the time that the king commands that Jerusalem should be rebuilt until the leader, Or: suffering.
\v 26 After those 434 years, the leader destroys everything. That will be the beginning of the war and destruction that God has decreed will happen.
\v 27 That ruler will make a strong agreement with many people. He will promise to do what he has said in that agreement for seven years. But when that time is half finished, he will prevent priests from giving any more offerings and sacrifices to God. A disgusting idol will be put on the highest part of the temple, and it will stay there until God gets rid of the one who put it there, which is what he said that he would do."
