\c 1
\p
\v 1 I, Paul, write this letter to you. I remind you that I am an apostle. That is not because a group of people appointed me, nor because a human being sent me to be an apostle. Instead, Jesus Christ and God our heavenly Father, who caused Jesus to become alive again after he died, have appointed and sent me to be an apostle.
\v 2 All the fellow believers who are here with me approve of this message that I am writing. I am sending this letter to the congregations thatare in Galatia province.
\v 3 I pray that God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ will kindly help you and enableyou to have inner peace.
\v 4 Christ offered himself as a sacrifice in order that he might remove the guilt for our sins. He did that in order that he might enable us to not do the evil things that people who do not know him do. He did this because God, who is our Father, wanted it.
\v 5 I pray that people will praise God forever. May it be so!
\s Galatians 1:6-10
\sr I am disappointed that you are believing a message that is not the good news about Christ, and I ask God to eternally punish those who are teaching such a message.
\p
\v 6 I am very disappointed  gives. I am also disappointed that so soon you are believing a different message which some say is "good news."
\v 7 Their message is not a true message. What is happening is that certain persons are confusing your minds. They are desiring to change the good message that Christ revealed and are creating another message.
\v 8 But even if we apostles or an angel from heaven would tell you a message that is different from the good message that we told you before, I appeal to God that he punish such a person forever.
\v 9 As I told you previously, so now I tell you this once more: Someone is telling you what he says is a good message, but it is a message that is different from the good message that I gave you. So I appeal to God that he severely punish that person.
\v 10 I said that because  things just to please people. If it were still people whom I was trying to please, then I would not be one who willingly and completely serves Christ.
\s Galatians 1:11-12
\sr It was Jesus Christ, not any human, who revealed the message that I proclaim.
\p
\v 11 My fellow believers, I want you to know that the message about Christ that I proclaim to people is not one that some person created up.
\v 12 I did not receive this message from a human messenger, and no human being taught it to me. Instead, Jesus Christ revealed it to me.
\s Galatians 1:13-24
\sr For seventeen years after God showed his Son to me, I had no contact with the apostles.
\p
\v 13 People have told you how I behaved formerly when I practiced the Jewish religion. They told you that I continually did very harmful things to the groups of believers that God established, and they told you that I tried to get rid of those people.
\v 14 I practiced the Jewish religion more thoroughly than many other Jews who were my age practiced it. I much more enthusiastically tried to get others to obey the traditions that my ancestors kept.
\v 15 Nevertheless, before I was born God set me apart. He chose me to live eternally, something that I did not deserve.
\v 16 He wanted me to know that Jesus is his Son, so that I would tell others the message about his Son in regions where non-Jews live. But I did not immediately go to any human beings  in order to gain an understanding of that message. I received it directly from Christ!
\v 17 I did not immediately leave Damascus and go to Jerusalem for that purpose to those who were apostles before I was. Instead, I went away to Arabia region, a desert area. Later I returned once more to Damascus city.
\v 18 Then three years after God revealed this good message to me, I went up to Jerusalem in order that I might meet Peter. But I stayed with him for only fifteen days, which was not long enough for him to teach me thoroughly about Christ.
\v 19 I also saw James, the brother of our Lord Jesus and the leader of the believers there, but I did not see any other apostle.
\v 20 God knows that what I am writing to you is completely true !
\v 21 After I left Jerusalem, I went to the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
\v 22 At that time people in the Christian congregations that are in Judea province still had not met me  personally.
\v 23 They only heard others say about me repeatedly, "Paul, the one who was formerly doing harmful things to us, is now telling the same message which we believe and which formerly he was trying to destroy!"
\v 24 And they praised God because of what had happened to me.
