\c 2
\p
\v 1 For yourselves, brethren, know our entering in to you, that it has not been found vain:
\v 2 but having suffered before and been shamefully treated, as you know, at Philippi, we waxed bold in our God to speak to
you the gospel of God in much conflict.
\v 3 For our exhortation is not of error, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile:
\v 4 but even as we have been approved of God to be intrusted with the gospel, so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God who
proves our hearts.
\v 5 For neither at any time were we found using words of flattery, as you know, nor a cloak of covetousness, God is witness;
\v 6 nor seeking glory of men, neither from you nor from others, when we might have claimed authority as apostles of Christ.
\v 7 But we were gentle in the midst of you, as when a nurse cherisheth her own children:
\v 8 even so, being affectionately desirous of you, we were well pleased to impart to you, not the gospel of God only, but
also our own souls, because you were become very dear to us.
\v 9 For you remember, brethren, our labor and travail: working night and day, that we might not burden any of you, we preached
to you the gospel of God.
\v 10 You are witnesses, and God also, how holily and righteously and unblamably we behaved ourselves toward you that
believe:
\v 11 as you know how we dealt with each one of you, as a father with his own children, exhorting you, and encouraging
you, and testifying,
\v 12 to the end that you should walk worthily of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory.
\p
\v 13 And for this cause we also thank God without ceasing, that, when you received from us the word of the message,
even the word of God, you accepted it not as the word of men, but, as it is in truth, the word of
God, which also works in you that believe.
\v 14 For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judaea in Christ Jesus: for you also suffered the
same things of your own countrymen, even as they did of the Jews;
\v 15 who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and drove out us, and please not God, and are contrary to all men;
\v 16 forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved; to fill up their sins always: but the wrath is come upon
them to the uttermost.
\p
\v 17 But we, brethren, being bereaved of you for a short season, in presence not in heart, endeavored the more exceedingly to
see your face with great desire:
\v 18 because we would fain have come to you, I Paul once and again; and Satan hindered us.
\v 19 For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of glorying? Are not even ye, before our Lord Jesus at his coming?
\v 20 For you are our glory and our joy.