===== Translate the Notes =====

This module answers the question: What are the guidelines for translating or adapting the Notes?\\
Before you start this module have you learned about:
  * [[en:ta:vol2:gateway:gl_adaptulb|Adapt the ULB]]
  * [[en:ta:vol2:gateway:gl_ulb|Translating the ULB]]

===Translating the Notes===

When you translate the Notes, you must also have both the ULB and the UDB in front of you, already translated into the target Gateway Language. You must have the ULB available so that you can copy the part of the ULB text that the Note is talking about directly into the Note. You must also have the UDB text already translated and available, because the Notes often copy part of the UDB text in order to show another way to translate the same part of the verse. Often, the Note does not quote the UDB but it does refer to it. In that case, you need to be able to see what the UDB says in order to translate the Note in the best way.

In addition, the Notes directly comment on parts of the ULB text, so you must read the part of the ULB text that the Note comments on in order to properly translate the Note. After you read and understand the ULB text, then you can translate the Note so that it makes sense together with the ULB text that it refers to.

Do not use the method of blind drafting to translate the Notes. Always translate the Notes with the Gateway Language ULB and UDB in front of you, and the English Notes also visible. This is because you must copy the ULB phrase into the Note exactly as it is in the ULB, and also the UDB phrase if the Note also quotes the UDB. Often, the Notes offer alternative ways to translate a phrase from the ULB. It is important that the phrase that you use to translate this kind of Note be a direct substitute for the phrase that it replaces in the ULB. In other words, the phrase has to have the same grammatical construction as the phrase in the ULB. That is, it needs to fit into the sentence in the ULB just like the original phrase did. In order to make sure that the phrase in the GL Note fits the sentence in the GL ULB, you must be able to always look at both the English Note and the GL ULB as you translate. Translating the Notes while having the source visible, therefore, is the most efficient way to translate them and this will also reduce the number of errors in translation. 

===Adapting the Notes===

Often, the ULB in the target Gateway Language will say things in a different way than the ULB said them in English. In order for the Note to be useful in the target Gateway Language, you will need to adapt the Note so that it talks about the text of the ULB as it is in the Gateway Language translation. This means that you will need to copy the phrase that is the translation of the same phrase from the English ULB into the Note, and then change the Note so that it makes sense and is helpful for the Other Language translator who will use these Notes as translation tools.

Because languages can be very different from each other, sometimes there will be Notes that are important and necessary for some languages, but that are not needed for other languages. If there is a Note that does not make sense when applied to the ULB text in the target Gateway Language, then you as the translator will need to modify the Note so that it does make sense in relation to the ULB in your target Gateway Language. If the Note does not apply at all to the target GL text of the ULB, then you may delete that note from your translation of the Notes. But be sure to think about it very carefully before you delete a Note, to be sure that it is not necessary for the GL translation.

For the same reason, sometimes you will realize that the Other Language translator will need a Note in order to understand a phrase in the target Gateway Language ULB, but there might not be a Note already written for that phrase, because it was not necesarry for the English ULB. In that case, you will need to write a new Note and include it in your translation. Usually these Notes will be to explain a phrase or way of saying something that is normal in the Gateway Language but that is not normal in the Other Languages that you know of. When writing your Note, follow the same style and format of the existing Notes. 

Remember that speakers of many different languages will be using these Gateway Language Notes to help them translate the Bible. There will be many things that you will understand about the Bible in the Gateway Language that the OL translator may not understand. For that reason, if you think that there is something difficult to understand in the GL ULB, write a Note that can help the OL translator to understand it. There will probably be many Other Language translators who will benefit from reading the Note and who will make a better translation because of it.






Next we recommend you learn about:
  * [[en:ta:vol2:gateway:gl_words|Translate the Words]]

