\c 4
\s1 The Israelite people and Joshua set up memorials
\p
\v 1 After all the people of the Israelite nation had finished crossing the Jordan River, Yahweh said to Joshua,
\v 2 "When you choose the twelve men, one from each tribe, whom I mentioned previously, tell them to pick up large stones from the middle of the Jordan riverbed, where the priests are still standing.
\v 3 Tell them to carry the stones with you and put them down at the place where you will stay tonight."
\p
\v 4 So Joshua chose twelve men, one from each tribe. He called them together, and said to them,
\v 5 "Go into the middle of the Jordan riverbed, to where the priests are standing, holding the chest that Yahweh, your God, gave you. Each of you must pick up a large stone, one for each tribe, and carry it on your shoulder to our camp.
\v 6 Then pile them up to be a memorial for you. In the future, when your children ask, 'What do these stones mean?,'
\v 7 tell them that the water in the Jordan River was blocked off when the priests were carrying the chest that contained the Ten Commandments that Yahweh gave us. When the chest was carried into the Jordan River, the water was blocked off so that we could cross the riverbed. These stones will be a memorial to the descendants of us Israelite people forever."
\p
\v 8 So those Israelite men did what Joshua told them to do. They went and picked up twelve large stones from the middle of the Jordan riverbed, one stone for each of the tribes, just as Yahweh had told Joshua. They carried the stones to their camp and put them down.
\v 9 Then Joshua set up twelve other large stones in a pile, in the middle of the Jordan riverbed, where the priests who carried the chest containing the Ten Commandments were standing. And those stones are still there.
\p
\v 10 The priests who carried the chest remained standing in the middle of the Jordan riverbed until the people had finished doing everything that Yahweh had commanded Joshua to tell them to do. Those were the same instructions that Moses had given to Joshua. The Israelite people crossed the riverbed quickly.
\v 11 As soon as all of them had crossed, as the people watched, the priests carried the chest.
\v 12 The soldiers of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and of half of the soldiers of the tribe of Manasseh, crossed over ahead of the rest of the Israelite people, carrying their weapons, as Moses had commanded.
\v 13 As Yahweh was watching, there were about forty thousand of those soldiers, carrying weapons ready for battle, who crossed the riverbed to the plains near Jericho, ready to fight.
\p
\v 14 On that day, all the people of Israel saw that Yahweh had made Joshua to be a great leader. And they honored Joshua for the rest of his life, just as they had honored Moses.
\v 15 Yahweh said to Joshua,
\v 16 "Now tell the priests who are carrying the chest containing the Ten Commandments to come up from the Jordan riverbed."
\v 17 So Joshua commanded the priests to do that.
\v 18 Then the priests, carrying the chest containing the Ten Commandments that Yahweh had given to Moses, came up out of the riverbed. And as soon as they walked up out of the riverbed onto the riverbank, the water of the Jordan River flowed again, and flooded over the river banks as it had done before.
\p
\v 19 It was on the tenth day of the first month of that year that the people crossed over the Jordan River and camped at a place called Gilgal, on the east side of the land near Jericho city.
\v 20 The men who were carrying the twelve large stones from the Jordan riverbed brought them to Joshua, and he set them up at Gilgal.
\v 21 Joshua said to the Israelite people, "In the future, when your children and grandchildren ask, 'What do these stones mean?',
\v 22 tell them, 'We Israelite people crossed the Jordan River as though we were crossing on dry ground.
\v 23 As we were watching, Yahweh, your God, dried up the river until we had all crossed over. Yahweh, the God whom we worship, did to the Jordan River just like he did to the Red Sea, when he caused it to become dry as our parents were watching, until they all crossed over.
\v 24 Yahweh did that in order that all the people-groups of the earth may know that he  Yahweh, your God.'~"
