\c 14
\s1 The land west of the Jordan River
\p
\v 1 Eleazar the supreme priest, Joshua, and the leaders of the twelve tribes decided what land to allot to each of the Israelite tribes in Canaan.
\v 2-5 Yahweh had told Moses many years previously in what way he wanted the division of the land to be decided. Moses had already declared that two and a half tribes would be allotted land on the east side of the Jordan River. Joseph had two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. Half of the tribe descended from Manasseh was allotted land on the east side of the Jordan, along with the tribes of Reuben and Gad. The people belonging to the nine and a half other tribes on the west side of the Jordan River threw lots for their animals.
\s1 Land for Caleb
\p
\v 6 One day some men from the tribe of Judah went to Joshua while he and all the Israelites were at Gilgal. Among those men was Jephunneh's son Caleb. He said to Joshua, "I am sure that you remember what Yahweh said to the prophet Moses concerning you and me when we were at Kadesh-Barnea.
\v 7 I was forty years old at that time. Moses sent me and you and some other men to explore this land. When we returned, I gave to Moses a true report [IDI] about what we had seen.
\v 8 The other men who went with us gave a report that caused the people to be afraid [IDI]. But I fully believed that Yahweh would enable us to take the land from the people who lived there.
\v 9 So on that day, Moses solemnly promised me, 'Some of the land on which you walked will become yours. It will belong to your descendants forever. I am giving it to you because you fully trusted in Yahweh, my God.'
\p
\v 10 Now Yahweh has done for me what he promised. Forty-five years have passed since Moses said that to me during the time that we were wandering around in the desert. And just like Yahweh promised, he has kept me alive and well all during that time. Now I am eighty-five years old.
\v 11 I am as strong today as I was on the day that Moses sent me to explore this land. I am as ready to fight now as I was then.
\v 12 So please give me the hilly area that Yahweh promised to give to me on that day long ago. At that time, you heard me say that the Amalek people-group lived there. You heard me say that their cities were large, and they had walls around them to protect them from their enemies. But now, Yahweh will help me, and as a result I will force them to leave, just like Yahweh said would happen."
\p
\v 13 So Joshua asked God to bless Caleb, and he gave to Caleb the city of Hebron.
\v 14-15 Previously that city was called Kiriath-Arba, because Arba was the greatest man among the Amalek people-group. Hebron still belongs to the descendants of Caleb, because Caleb completely trusted in Yahweh, the God whom we Israelites worship, and obeyed him.
\p After that happened, there was peace in Canaan land for many years.
