\c 20
\s1 Cities of refuge
\p
\v 1 Then Yahweh said to Joshua,
\v 2 "Tell the Israelite people that they should choose some cities to which people can run in order to be safe, like I told Moses that you should do.
\v 3 If someone kills another person accidentally, not intending to kill that person, the one who killed that person may run.
\p
\v 4 When the one who killed someone arrives at the gate of one of those cities, he must stop there and tell the leaders of the city what happened. If they believe him, they must allow him to enter the city, and they must give him a place to live among them.
\v 5 If some relative of the one who was killed comes to that city to get revenge, the leaders of that city must not allow the relative to take the killer, because what happened was accidental. He did not deliberately hate that person and as a result deliberately kill him.
\v 6 But the person who killed someone else must stay in that city until the city judges put him on trial. Only if the judges decide that the person who has run for the death of the person who was killed."
\p
\v 7 So the Israelites chose these cities to be cities to which people could run to be safe: Kedesh in the Galilee district in the hilly area where the tribe of Naphtali lived; Shechem in the hilly area where the tribe of Ephraim lived; Kiriath-Arba (which is now named Hebron) in the hilly area where the tribe of Judah lived;
\v 8 Bezer, on the east side of the Jordan River near Jericho, in the flat land in the desert where the tribe of Reuben lived; Ramoth in the Gilead region in the land where the tribe of Gad lived; and Golan in the Bashan region where the tribe of Manasseh lived.
\v 9 Any Israelite or any foreigner who lived among us, anyone who killed someone accidentally, was allowed to run to one of those cities, and be safe, Or: protected from some relative of the person who died coming there and killing him to get revenge. He could stay in that city until there was a trial there to decide whether he was telling the truth or not when he said that he did not plan to kill that person.
