\c 2
\p
\v 1 You who are very dear to me, I am writing this to you to say, 'Do not sin!' But if any of you believers sins, God can forgive you because we have Jesus Christ, who is the righteous one, who speaks to the Father on our behalf and asks him to forgive us.
\v 2 Remember that Jesus Christ voluntarily sacrificed his own life for us, so that as a result God forgives our sins. Yes, God is able to forgive our sins, but not only ours! He is alsoable to forgive the sins of people everywhere!
\s 1 John 2:3-6
\sr We should conduct our lives as Christ did, obeying what God commands us to do. We will then be loving God in the manner in which he wants us to.
\p
\v 3 I will tell you how we can be sure that we know God. If we obey what he commands us to do, that shows us that we have a close relationship with him. So we must always obey what he commands us to do.
\v 4 Those who say, "We know God," and do not obey what God commands us to do, are liars. They are not conducting their lives according to God's true message.
\v 5 But those who obey what God commands them to do are the people who love God in the manner in which he wants us to. I will tell you how we can be sure that we have a close relationship with God:
\v 6 If we say that we are living as God wants us to, we should conduct our lives as Christ did.
\s 1 John 2:7-11
\sr We ought to love our fellow believers in order to continue behaving like people living in the light.
\p
\v 7 Dear friends, I am not writing a new additional command to you. Instead, I am writing to you a command which you have had since you first  believed in Christ. That command is part of the message that you have always heard.
\v 8 Nevertheless, I can say that the command I am writing to you is a new command. It is new because what Christ did was new, and what you are doing is new, because you have been ceasing to conduct your lives in a morally impure manner and are now truly conducting your lives in a pure manner. That is like  no longer living in darkness. Instead, it is like living where a brilliant light is already shining.
\v 9 Those who claim that they are pure in every way, like people  people who are continually living in darkness.
\v 10 But those who love their fellow believers are continuing to conduct their lives like people who are living in the light. They are people who please God . So you should love your fellow believers.
\v 11 But those who hate any of their fellow believers are still conducting their lives in an impure way, like , unaware of spiritual truth.
\s 1 John 2:12-14
\sr I am writing all these matters to you because I know that God has forgiven your sins and also because you have come to know the Father and Christ, who has always existed, and because you have overcome the evil one.
\p
\v 12-13 I am writing this to you whom I love as though  has done. You now know Christ, the one who always existed. You have defeated the evil one, Satan.
\v 14 I will say it again: I have written this to you because you have come to know the Father, because you now know Christ, the one who always existed, because you are spiritually strong, because you continue to obey God's word, and because you have defeated the evil one, Satan.
\s 1 John 2:15-17
\sr Do not esteem the evil manner in which other people in the world live, since you want to live forever.
\p
\v 15 Do not desire to conduct you lives in the evil manner in which godless people in the world  conduct their lives do not really love God, their Father, at all.
\v 16 Keep in mind that all the evil human desires in the world are actions!
\v 17 The godless people in the world , along with what they desire, will disappear, but those who do what God wants them to do will live forever!
\s 1 John 2:18-25
\sr You know that it is now the final period of this age when there are liars who deny that Jesus is God's Chosen One. But you have the power of God's Spirit and you know what is true and what is false. So continue to live according to the true message that you heard when you began to believe in Christ, in order that you may continue to live united both to God's Son and to the Father.
\p
\v 18 You who are very dear to me, it is now the final part .
\v 19 The people who oppose Christ refused to remain in our congregations, but they never really belonged with us.
\v 20 But as for you, you have been given the power of God's Spirit, which comes from Christ  the true message.
\v 21 I am writing this letter to you, not because you do not know what is God's true message, but because you do know what it is. You also know that no false message originates from God, who is the source of all truth.
\v 22 The worst liars are the ones who deny that Jesus is the Messiah.
\v 23 Those who refuse to acknowledge that Jesus is God's Son not only have a relationship with God's Son, but they have a relationship with the Father also.
\v 24 So, as for you, you must continue to conduct your lives according to the true message that you heard when you began  to believe in Christ. If you continue to do that, you will continue to have a close relationship with both God's Son and the Father.
\v 25 And what God told us is that he will cause us to live forever!
\s 1 John 2:26-27
\sr Continue to conduct your lives according to what you were originally taught by God's Spirit.
\p
\v 26 I have written this to you to warn you about those who want to deceive you concerning the truth about Christ.
\v 27 As for you, God's Spirit, whom you received from Christ, remains in you. So you do not need anyone to teach you anything else that they claim is the truth. God's Spirit is teaching you all of God's truth that you need to know. God's Spirit is truthful and never says anything that is false. So continue to conduct your lives in the way that he has taught you.
\s 1 John 2:28-29
\sr Continue to live united to Christ, so that you will be confident that he will accept you when he returns.
\p
\v 28 Now, while some people are trying to persuade you to accept their false teaching, I urge you who are very dear to me to continue to have a close relationship with Christ. We need to do that in order that we may be confident that he will accept us when he comes back again. If we do that, we will not be ashamed when we stand before him when he comes.
\v 29 Since you know that Christ always does what is right, you know that all those who continue doing what is right are the ones who have become children of God.
