\c 5
\s 1 John 5:1-5
\sr Those who believe that Jesus is God's Chosen One are people who have been caused to live spiritually, and they love their fellow believers. They obey God's commands and overcome the evils of human society.
\p
\v 1 All those who believe that Jesus is the Messiah, should love their fellow believers, whom God has also caused to become his children. 
\v 2 The way we can be sure that we  truly love God's children is this: We are loving them when we love God and do what he commands  us to do. 
\v 3  I say this because our obeying what God commands  us to do isthe same as loving him. And it is not burdensome for  us to do what God commands  us to do. 
\v 4 All of us whom God has caused to become his children have been able to successfully resist doing what do. 
\v 5 I will tell you who are the ones who are able to resist doing what the people who are opposed to God do..
\s 1 John 5:6-12
\sr Jesus came from God to earth. Those who believe in and live united to him have eternal life.
\p
\v 6  Think about Jesus Christ. He is the one who came  to earth from God. God showed that he had truly sent Jesus when Jesus was baptized in water , but also when Jesus' blood flowed  from his body when he died. And  God's Spirit declares  truthfully that Jesus Christ came from God. The Spirit always  speaks what is true. 
\v 7 There are three  things by which we knowthat Christ came from God. 
\v 8  Those three things are: What God's Spirit  tells us, what God said when Jesus was baptized  water, and  Jesus' blood  that flowed from his body when he died on the cross. These three things all tell us the same thing, that Jesus came from God. 
\v 9 We  usually believe what  other people say. But what God says is more  reliable. 
\v 10 Those who trust in the Son of God know within their inner beings. 
\v 11 This is what  God says  to us: "I have given you eternal life!" We will live forever if we have a close relationship with his Son. 
\v 12 Those who have  a close relationship with God's Son  have not begunto live  forever.
\s 1 John 5:13-21
\sr We have a close relationship with God because we are united to his Son. Because of that relationship, we have eternal life.
\p
\v 13 I have written this  letter to you who believe that Jesus is  in order that you may know that you have eternal life. 
\v 14 Because we have a close relationship with him, we are very confident that he hears us when we ask him  to do anything that is in accordance with his will. 
\v 15  And since we know that he hears whenever we ask  him for something, we  also know that  it is as though he has  already done what we requested him  to do.
\p
\v 16 Those who see one of their fellow believers sinning in a way that does not result in eternal separation from God should ask  God to help that fellow believer; and  as a result God will help that fellow believer and enable him or her to live  eternally. But some people sin  in a manner that causes them to be separated from God eternally. I am not saying that  you should ask  God to help people who sin like that. 
\v 17 Everyone who does what is wrong is sinning, but there are some sins that do not cause a person to be separated from God eternally. 
\v 18 We know that if a person has new life from God  God protects him so that  Satan, the evil one, does not harm him  spiritually. 
\v 19 We know that we belong to God, and  we know that the evil one controls all  the evil people in  the world. 
\v 20 We also know that God's Son God. Jesus Christ is truly God, and  he is the one who enables us to have eternal life.
\p
\v 21  I say to you who are very dear to me, guard yourselves from  worshipping gods  that have no real power!
