\c 9
\s John 9:1-12
\sr Jesus healed a man who was born blind.
\p
\v 1 As Jesus walked along with us, he saw a man who had been blind from the time he was born.
\v 2 We disciples asked him, "Teacher, was this man blind from when he was born because his parents sinned or because he himself sinned?"
\v 3 Jesus replied, "His being blind was not because he or his parents sinned. Instead, he has been blind in order that people can see the power of God  as a result of what will now happen to him.
\v 4 While there is still time, I must do the work that the one who sent me wants me to do. Just like daytime is followed by nighttime when people do not work, at the end of our lives  it is too late for us to do what God wants.
\v 5 While I am still living in this world, I am the one who enables people to know about God, like  this world to see what is in the darkness."
\p
\v 6 After he said that, he spat on the ground. He made a little bit of mud with the saliva, and put it on the man's eyes.
\v 7 Then he said to him, "Go and wash in Siloam pool!" (That name means 'sent;' just like they sent the water by a channel into the pool, God sent Jesus). So the man went and washed in the pool, and when he went home he was able to see!
\v 8 His neighbors and others who previously had seen him when he was begging said, "He is the man who used to sit here and beg, isn't he?"
\v 9 Some said, "Yes, he is." Others said, "No, he is not. It is just a man who looks like him!" But the man himself said, "Yes, I am that man!"
\v 10 So they said to him, "How is it that now you can see?"
\v 11 He replied, "The man whose name is Jesus made some mud and put it on my eyes. Then he told me to go to Siloam pool and wash. So I went there and washed, and then I could see."
\v 12 They said to him, "Where is that man now?" He said, "I do not know."
\s John 9:13-41
\sr The Pharisees investigated the healing of the blind man.
\p
\v 13 They took to the Pharisees the man who was previously blind.
\v 14 The day on which Jesus made the mud and enabled the man to see again was a Sabbath.
\v 15 So the Pharisees also asked him, "How did you become able to see?" He said to them, "The man put mud on my eyes. Then I washed, and now I can see!"
\v 16 So some of the Pharisees said, "Since this man Jesus disobeys our rules about working on the Sabbath" So they were divided.
\v 17 So one of them said to the blind man again, "You are the man whom he enabled to see. What do you yourself say about him?" The man said, "I think he is a prophet!" So they told him to go.
\p
\v 18 The Jewish leaders  still did not believe that the man was blind when he was born, and that he was now able to see. So they sent someone to bring the man's parents.
\v 19 When they got there, one of the Jewish leaders asked them, "Is that man your son? Do you say that he was blind when he was born? If that is true, how is he now able to see?"
\v 20 His parents replied, "We know that he is our son. We know that he was blind when he was born.
\v 21 But we do not know how he is able to see now. We also do not know who enabled him to see. Ask our son! He is old enough to answer questions from authorities like you! He can tell you himself!"
\v 22 The Jewish leaders .
\v 23 That is the reason that they said, "He is old enough to answer questions, so ask him!"
\p
\v 24 So they sent someone to bring back to them the man who had been blind. When he got there, the Jewish leaders said to him, "Knowing that God is listening , tell the truth! We know that the man who healed you is a sinner."
\v 25 He replied, "I do not know if he is a sinner or not. But one thing I do know is that I was blind, but now I can see!"
\v 26 So they said to him, "What did he do to you? How did he enable you to see?"
\v 27 He replied, "I told you that already, but you did not ."
\v 28 Then they insulted him angrily. They said, "You are that man's disciple, but we are Moses' disciples!
\v 29 We know that God spoke to Moses; but this man, we do not know where he is from or where he gets any authority from!"
\v 30 The man replied, "That is very surprising! You say that you do not know where he gets any authority. But he enabled me to see!
\v 31 We know that God does not help sinners who ask God to help them. Instead, he listens to and helps godly people who pray. He listens to people who do what God wants.
\v 32 No one has ever enabled a man to see who was blind when he was born like I was. That has never happened since the world began!
\v 33 So if this man had not come from God, he would not be able to do anything like that!"
\v 34 They replied to him, "You were born as a result of your parents' sin " Then they threw him out of the synagogue.
\p
\v 35 Jesus heard people say that they had thrown that man out. He found the man and said to him, "Do you believe that the one who came down from heaven is the Messiah?"
\v 36 The man answered, "Sir, who is he? Tell me, in order that I may believe in him."
\v 37 Jesus said to him, "You have seen him. In fact, it is I, the one who am speaking to you."
\v 38 The man said, "Lord, I believe that you are the Messiah!" Then he knelt down before Jesus and worshipped him.
\p
\v 39 Jesus said, "I have come into this world to judge the people in the world. The result will be that those who realize that they do not know God's truth will perceive it. That is like  people who are blind remaining blind permanently."
\v 40 Some of the Pharisees who were with him heard him say that, and said to him, "You are not suggesting that we are like blind people, are you?"
\v 41 Jesus said to them, "If you realized that you did not yet know God's truth, but you wanted to, then you would be like blind people who wanted to see. God would be able to forgive your sins. But you are now falsely claiming that you know God's truth, so you are like people who are blind who claim that they can see. Because of that, God is not able to forgive your sins."
