\c 15
\s John 15:1-17
\sr Jesus taught them that they needed to remain closely united to him in order to live in a way that would please God.
\p
\v 1 Jesus talked to us as we were walking along. Speaking figuratively of the need for us to live in a way that God wants us to, he said, "I am like  a gardener who works to take care of a vineyard.
\v 2 Just like a gardener cuts off the branches that bear no grapes  those who live as he wants them to live.
\v 3 You are already like the branches that a gardener trims because you have believed the message that I have told you.
\v 4 Remain having a close relationship with me. If you do that, I will remain having a close relationship with you. A branch of a vine cannot bear fruit if it is cut off and left by itself. To bear fruit, it must remain attached to the vine. Similarly, you cannot live the way that God wants you to if you do not remain united to me .
\p
\v 5 I am like  that truly pleases God without my help.
\v 6 A gardener cuts off and throws away useless branches. Then, after they dry up, he picks them up and throws them into a fire and burns them . Similarly, everyone who does not remain having a close relationship with me, God will get rid of.
\v 7 If you remain having a close relationship with me and you keep living in accordance with my message, you can ask God to do anything for you, and he will do it.
\v 8 The way my Father is honored is by your , and by doing that you will show that you are my disciples.
\p
\v 9 I have loved you just as my Father has loved me. Now keep living in a way that is appropriate for those whom I love.
\v 10 If you obey what I have commanded you, you will be acting in a way that is appropriate for those whom I love, just like I have obeyed what my Father has commanded me and I act in a way that is appropriate for someone whom he loves.
\v 11 I have told you these things so that you may be joyful as I am joyful, and that you may be completely joyful.
\v 12 What I am commanding you is this: Love each other just like I have loved you.
\v 13 The best way that people can show that they love someone is to die for that person. There is no way that you can love someone in a greater way than that.
\v 14 You show that you are my friends if you keep doing what I have commanded you.
\v 15 I will no longer call you my servants, because servants do not know why their masters want them to do things. Instead, I have said that you are my friends, because I, acting like a friend, have revealed to you everything that my Father told me.
\v 16 You did not decide to become my disciples. Instead, I chose you, so that you would do many things that please him .
\v 17 I repeat what I have commanded you: Love each other."
\s John 15:18-16:4
\sr Jesus taught them that those who were opposed to God would hate them, too.
\p
\v 18 "The people who are opposed to God will hate you. When that happens, remember that they hated me first.
\v 19 If you belonged to those who are opposed to God  hate you.
\v 20 Remember these words that I told you: 'No servant is greater than his master.' That means that you, who are like my servants, cannot expect people to treat you better than they treat me. So, since they have persecuted me also. If they had paid attention to the things I taught them, they would pay attention to what you teach them.
\v 21 They will treat you like that because you belong to me , and because they do not know the one who sent me.
\v 22 If I had not come and spoken God's message to them, they would not be guilty of rejecting me and my message. But now I have come and told them God's message, so they will have no excuse when God judges them for their sin.
\v 23 All those who hate me, it is as though they hate my Father as well.
\v 24 If I had not done among them the miracles that no one else ever did, they would not be guilty of the sin of rejecting me. But now, although they have seen those miracles, they have hated both me and my Father.
\v 25 But this has happened in order that these words that have been written in their Scriptures might be fulfilled : 'They hated me for no reason.'
\p
\v 26 Later I will send to you from my Father the one who will encourage you. He is the Spirit who will teach you God's truth. He will come from my Father. He will tell people about me.
\v 27 But you disciples must also tell people about me, because you have been with me from the time when I started my ministry ."
