\c 21
\s John 21:1-14
\sr Jesus appeared to seven disciples and enabled them miraculously to catch a lot of fish.
\p
\v 1 After that, Jesus showed himself to us disciples when we were at Tiberias Lake, which is another name for Galilee Lake. This is what happened:
\v 2 Simon Peter, Thomas who was called  The Twin, Nathaniel from Cana town in Galilee, my older brother and I, and two other disciples were together.
\v 3 Simon Peter said to us, "I am going to try to catch some fish." We said, "We will go with you." So we went down to the lake and got in the boat. But that night we caught nothing.
\v 4 Early the next morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but we did not know that it was Jesus.
\v 5 He called out to us, "My friends, you have not caught any fish, have you?" We answered, "You are correct, we have not caught any."
\v 6 He said to us, "Throw your net out from the right-hand side of the boat! Then you will find some!" We did that, and we caught so many fish in the net that we were unable to pull the net into the boat!
\v 7 But I knew that it was Jesus, so I said to Peter, "It is the Lord!" Peter had taken off his cloak while he was working, but as soon as he heard me say "It is the Lord!" he wrapped his cloak around himself and jumped into the water and swam to shore.
\v 8 The rest of us came to the shore in the boat, pulling the net full of fish. We were not far from shore, only about a hundred yards.
\v 9 When we got to the shore, we saw that there was a fire of burning coals there, with a large fish on the fire, and some buns.
\v 10 Jesus said to us, "Bring some of the fish that you have just caught!"
\v 11 Simon Peter got in the boat and dragged the net to the shore. It was full of large fish. There were 153 of them! But in spite of there being so many fish, the net was not torn.
\v 12 Jesus said to us, "Come and eat some breakfast!" None of us dared to ask him, "Who are you?" because we knew that it was the Lord.
\v 13 Jesus came and took the buns and gave them to us. He did the same with the fish.
\v 14 That was the third time that Jesus appeared to us disciples after God caused him to become alive again after he died.
\s John 21:15-19
\sr Jesus asked Peter three times if he really loved Jesus. Then Jesus told Peter how Peter would die.
\p
\v 15 When we had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "John's son Simon, do you love me more than these other disciples do?" Peter said to him, "Yes, Lord, you know that you are dear to me  a shepherd provides food for his lambs."
\v 16 Jesus said to him again, "John's son Simon, do you love me?" He replied, "Yes, Lord, you know that you are dear to me  a shepherd takes care of his sheep."
\v 17 Jesus said to him a third time, "John's son Simon, am I really dear to you  a shepherd provides food for his sheep.
\v 18 Now listen to this carefully: When you were young, you put your clothes on by yourself, and you went wherever you wanted to go. But when you are old, you will stretch out your arms, and someone will fasten them with a rope and will lead you to a place where you do not want to go."
\v 19 Jesus said this to indicate how Peter would die violently in order to honor God. Then Jesus said to him, "Keep being my faithful disciple until you die."
\s John 21:20-23
\sr Peter asked Jesus what would happen to John.
\p
\v 20 Peter turned around and saw that I was following them. I was the one who leaned close to Jesus during the Passover meal and said, "Lord, who is going to enable your enemies to seize you?"
\v 21 When Peter saw me, he asked, "Lord, what is going to happen to him?"
\v 22 Jesus said to him, "If I want him to remain alive until I return, that is not your concern! You be my faithful disciple!"
\v 23 Some of the other believers heard a report of what Jesus had said about me, and they thought that Jesus meant that I would not die. But Jesus did not say that I would not die. He said only, "If I want him to remain alive until I return, that is not your concern!"
\s John 21:24-25
\sr A statement about the truth and accuracy of this document.
\p
\v 24 I, John, am the disciple who has seen all these things and I have written them down.
\p We elders of the congregation at Ephesus know that what John has written is true.
\p
\v 25 Jesus did many other things. If they wouldall be written  about what he did.
