\c 4
\p
\v 1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity were building a temple to
Jehovah, the God of Israel;
\v 2 then they drew near to Zerubbabel, and to the heads of fathers’
houses, and said to them, Let us build with you; for we seek your God, as you do; and we sacrifice to him since
the days of Esar-haddon king of Assyria, who brought us up hither.
\v 3 But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers’
houses of Israel, said to them, You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but we ourselves
together will build to Jehovah, the God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us.
\v 4 Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Judah, and troubled them in building,
\v 5 and hired counselors against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign
of Darius king of Persia.
\v 6 And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, wrote they an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah
and Jerusalem.
\p
\v 7 And in the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of his companions, to Artaxerxes king of
Persia; and the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian character, and set forth in the Syrian
tongue.
\v 8 Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort:
\v 9 then wrote Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions, the Dinaites, and
the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Shushanchites, the Dehaites, the
Elamites,
\v 10 and the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Osnappar brought over, and set in the city of Samaria, and in the
rest of the country beyond the River, and so forth.
\p
\v 11 This is the copy of the letter that they sent to Artaxerxes the king: Your servants the men beyond the River, and so
forth.
\v 12 Be it known to the king, that the Jews that came up from you are come to us to Jerusalem; they are building the
rebellious and the bad city, and have finished the walls, and repaired the foundations.
\v 13 Be it known now to the king, that, if this city be builded, and the walls finished, they will not pay tribute, custom,
or toll, and in the end it will be hurtful to the kings.
\v 14 Now because we eat the salt of the palace, and it is not meet for us to see the king’s dishonor, therefore have we sent
and certified the king;
\v 15 that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers: so shall you find in the book of the records, and
know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtful to kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the
same of old time; for which cause was this city laid waste.
\v 16 We certify the king that, if this city be builded, and the walls finished, by this means you shall have no portion
beyond the River.
\p
\v 17 Then sent the king an answer to Rehum the chancellor, and to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their
companions that dwell in Samaria, and in the rest of the country beyond the River: Peace, and so forth.
\v 18 The letter which you sent to us has been plainly read before me.
\v 19 And I decreed, and search has been made, and it is found that this city of old time has made insurrection against
kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made therein.
\v 20 There have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem, who have ruled over all
the country beyond the River; and tribute, custom, and toll, was paid to them.
\v 21 Make you now a decree to cause these men to cease, and that this city be not builded, until a decree shall be made by me.
\v 22 And take heed that you be not slack herein: why should damage grow to the hurt of the kings?
\p
\v 23 Then when the copy of king Artaxerxes’ letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they
went in haste to Jerusalem to the Jews, and made them to cease by force and power.
\v 24 Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem; and it ceased until the second year of the reign of
Darius king of Persia.