\c 7
\p
\v 1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of
Hilkiah,
\v 2 the son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub,
\v 3 the son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth,
\v 4 the son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki,
\v 5 the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest—
\v 6 this Ezra went up from Babylon. And he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses, which Jehovah, the God of Israel, had
given; and the king granted him all his request, according to the hand of Jehovah his God upon him.
\v 7 And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters,
and the Nethinim, to Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.
\v 8 And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king.
\v 9 For upon the first day of the first month began he to go up from Babylon; and on the first
day of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God upon him.
\v 10 For Ezra had set his heart to seek the law of Jehovah, and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and ordinances.
\p
\v 11 Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even the scribe of the
words of the commandments of Jehovah, and of his statutes to Israel:
\v 12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect and so forth.
\v 13 I make a decree, that all they of the people of Israel, and their priests and the Levites, in my realm, that are minded
of their own free will to go to Jerusalem, go with thee.
\v 14 Forasmuch as you are sent of the king and his seven counsellors, to inquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according to
the law of your God which is in your hand,
\v 15 and to carry the silver and gold, which the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose
habitation is in Jerusalem,
\v 16 and all the silver and gold that you shall find in all the province of Babylon, with the free will offering of the
people, and of the priests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem;
\v 17 therefore you shall with all diligence buy with this money bullocks, rams, lambs, with their meal-offerings and their
drink-offerings, and shall offer them upon the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem.
\v 18 And whatever shall seem good to you and to your brethren to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do you
after the will of your God.
\v 19 And the vessels that are given you for the service of the house of your God, deliver you before the God of Jerusalem.
\v 20 And whatever more shall be needful for the house of your God, which you shall have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of
the king’s treasure-house.
\v 21 And I, even I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all the treasurers that are beyond the River, that whatever Ezra
the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require of you, it be done with all diligence,
\v 22 to a hundred talents of silver, and to a hundred measures of wheat, and to a hundred baths of wine, and to a hundred
baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.
\v 23 Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven; for why should
there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons?
\v 24 Also we certify you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, the singers, porters, Nethinim, or servants of this
house of God, it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll, upon them.
\v 25 And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the
people that are beyond the River, all such as know the laws of your God; and teach you him that knows them not.
\v 26 And whoever will not do the law of your God, and the law of the king, let judgment be executed upon him with all
diligence, whether it be to death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment.
\p
\v 27 Blessed be Jehovah, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the king’s heart, to beautify the house
of Jehovah which is in Jerusalem;
\v 28 and has extended lovingkindness to me before the king, and his counsellors, and before all the king’s mighty princes.
And I was strengthened according to the hand of Jehovah my God upon me, and I gathered together out of Israel chief men to go
up with me.