\c 9
\p
\v 1 Now when these things were done, the princes drew near to me, saying, The people of Israel, and the priests and the
Levites, have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands,
doing according to their abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the
Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.
\v 2 For they have taken of their daughters for themselves and for their sons, so that the holy seed have mingled themselves
with the peoples of the lands: yea, the hand of the princes and rulers has been chief in this trespass.
\v 3 And when I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my robe, and plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat
down confounded.
\v 4 Then were assembled to me every one that trembled at the words of the God of Israel, because of the trespass of them of
the captivity; and I sat confounded until the evening oblation.
\p
\v 5 And at the evening oblation I arose up from my humiliation, even with my garment and my robe rent; and I fell upon my
knees, and spread out my hands to Jehovah my God;
\v 6 and I said, O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God; for our iniquities are increased over our
head, and our guiltiness is grown up to the heavens.
\v 7 Since the days of our fathers we have been exceeding guilty to this day; and for our iniquities have we, our kings, and
our priests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to plunder, and to
confusion of face, as it is this day.
\v 8 And now for a little moment grace has been showed from Jehovah our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a
nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a little reviving in our bondage.
\v 9 For we are bondmen; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended lovingkindness to us in the sight
of the kings of Persia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair the ruins thereof, and to give us
a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem.
\v 10 And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? for we have forsaken your commandments,
\v 11 which you have commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, The land, to which you go to possess it, is an unclean
land through the uncleanness of the peoples of the lands, through their abominations, which have filled it from one end to
another with their filthiness:
\v 12 now therefore give not your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters to your sons, nor seek their peace
or their prosperity for ever; that you may be strong, and eat the good of the land, and leave it for an inheritance to your
children for ever.
\v 13 And after all that is come upon us for our evil deeds, and for our great guilt, seeing that you our God have punished us
less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such a remnant,
\v 14 shall we again break your commandments, and join in affinity with the peoples that do these abominations? would not
you be angry with us till you had consumed us, so that there should be no remnant, nor any to escape?
\v 15 O Jehovah, the God of Israel, you are righteous; for we are left a remnant that is escaped, as it is this day: behold,
we are before you in our guiltiness; for none can stand before you because of this.