\c 4
\s1 Moses urged the people to obey God's laws
\p
\v 1 "Now, you Israelite people, obey all the rules and regulations  the land that Yahweh, the God whom your ancestors worshiped, is giving to you.
\v 2 Do not add anything to what I command you, and do not take anything away from what I tell you. Obey all the commands of Yahweh our God that I am giving to you.
\p
\v 3 You have seen what Yahweh did at Baal-Peor Mountain. He got rid of all the people who worshiped the god Baal there,
\v 4 but you who faithfully continued to worship Yahweh our God are still alive today.
\p
\v 5 Note that I have taught you all the rules and regulations, just like Yahweh our God told me to do. He wants you to obey them when you are living in the land that you are about to enter and occupy.
\v 6 Obey them faithfully because, if you do that, you will show the people of other nations that you are very wise. When they hear about all these laws, they will say, 'The people of this great nation of Israel are certainly very wise !'
\v 7 Even if other nations are great, there is none  us!
\v 8 And there is no  as the laws that I am telling to you today.
\p
\v 9 But be very careful! [DOU, IDI] Do not forget what you  have seen God do. Remember those things as long as you are alive. Tell them to your children and your grandchildren.
\v 10 Tell them about the day that your ancestors stood in the presence of Yahweh our God at Sinai Mountain, when he said to me, 'Gather the people together, in order that they can hear what I say. I want them to learn to have an awesome respect for me as long as they are alive, and I want them to teach their children to do that also.'
\v 11 Tell them that your ancestors came near to the bottom of the mountain, while the mountain burned with a fire that went up to the sky, and the mountain was covered with dark clouds and black smoke.
\v 12 Then Yahweh spoke to your ancestors out of the middle of the fire. Your ancestors heard him speak, but they did not see him. They only heard his voice.
\v 13 And he declared to them his agreement that he wants you also to obey. He gave them ten commandments. He wrote those on two stone tablets.
\v 14 Yahweh commanded me to teach all the rules and regulations to you, in order that you would obey them in the land that you are about to enter and occupy."
\s1 Moses warned them about worshiping idols
\p
\v 15 "On the day that Yahweh spoke to your ancestors at Sinai Mountain, they did not see him. So, be careful!
\v 16 Do not sin by making for yourselves any idol! Do not make an idol that resembles any person, either a man or a woman,
\v 17 or that resembles any animal or any bird
\v 18 or any reptile or any fish in the deep ocean.
\v 19 And be careful to not look up toward the sky and be tempted to worship anything that you see there—the sun or the moon or the stars. Yahweh our God has given those to be a blessing to all people everywhere, but you must not worship them.
\v 20 Yahweh has brought your ancestors out of Egypt, where they were suffering as though they were in a blazing furnace, in order that they would be people who belong to him, which is what you are today.
\p
\v 21 But Yahweh was angry with me because of what your ancestors did land that he is giving to you.
\v 22 He said that I must die here in this land and never cross the Jordan River. But you will go across it, and you will occupy that land.
\v 23 Be sure that you do not forget the agreement that Yahweh our God made with you. He commanded you to not make any kind of idol, because he has forbidden that.
\v 24 You must not do that because Yahweh your God will destroy anyone who worships idols, like  people who worship anyone or anything else.
\p
\v 25 When you have been in the land of Canaan for a long time and you have children and grandchildren, do not sin by making an idol that represents anything at all, because Yahweh says that is evil, and if you do that, you will cause him to become angry with you and punish you.
\v 26 Today I am requesting everyone who is in heaven and everyone who is on the earth  of you.
\v 27 And the rest of you, Yahweh will force you to go and live among the people of many other nations. Only a few of you will survive there.
\v 28 When you are in those nations, you will worship gods that are made of wood and stone, gods made by humans, gods that cannot see anything or hear anything or eat anything or smell anything.
\v 29 But while you are there, you will try to know Yahweh your God, and if you try with your entire inner being to know him, he will answer you.
\v 30 In the future, when you are being mistreated there and all those bad things happen to you, you will again worship only Yahweh and obey him.
\v 31 Yahweh is a God who acts mercifully. If you continue to obey him, he will not abandon you or destroy you or forget the agreement that he solemnly made with your ancestors."
\s1 Only Yahweh is God
\p
\v 32 "Now think about the past, about the time before you were born, about all the time since God first created people here on the earth. You could search everywhere, in heaven and on the earth. Has anything like this ever happened that is as great as what Yahweh did for the Israelite people?
\v 33 Has any group ever remained alive after they heard a god speak to them from the middle of a fire, like we did?
\v 34 Certainly no other god has ever tried to take a huge group of people from one nation to another location, like he did for us when he brought us out of Egypt. We saw Yahweh our God use great power  miracles, and sent plagues, and did many other very terrifying things, and rescued us when the army of Egypt tried to fight against us.
\p
\v 35 Yahweh showed all these things to you, in order that you would know that only he is truly God, and that there is no other God.
\v 36 He allowed your ancestors to hear him speak from heaven in order that he could discipline them. Here on the earth he allowed them to see his great fire on Sinai Mountain, and he spoke to them from the middle of the fire.
\v 37 Because he loved our ancestors, he chose you Israelites who are their descendants, and by his great power he brought your ancestors out of Egypt.
\v 38 As they advanced, he expelled the people of nations that were greater and more powerful than they were, in order that he could allow them to capture their land and cause it to become yours, which is what is happening now.
\p
\v 39 So today you should meditate on the fact that Yahweh is God, that he is, Or: rules in heaven and also on the earth, and that there is no other god.
\v 40 Obey all the rules and regulations that I am giving to you today, in order that things will go well for you and for your descendants, and that you will live a long time in the land that Yahweh our God is giving to you, to belong to you forever."
\s1 The cities of refuge
\p
\v 41 Then Moses set apart three cities that are in the east side of the Jordan River.
\v 42 If someone accidentally killed another person, a person who had not been his enemy previously, he could escape to one of those cities. He would be safe in one of those cities because the people there would protect him.
\v 43 For the tribe of Reuben, Moses set apart Ramoth city in the Gilead area. For the tribe of Manasseh, Moses, Or: I set apart Golan city in the Bashan region.
\s1 Where Moses gave them God's laws
\p
\v 44 Moses gave God's laws to the Israelite people.
\v 45 They included all the rules and instructions and commands that Moses had come out of Egypt,
\v 46 when they came out of Egypt.
\v 47 They captured Sihon's land and the land that Og, the king of the Bashan region, ruled. They were the two kings who ruled the Amor people-group in the area east of the Jordan River.
\v 48 Their land extended from Aroer town in the south along the Arnon River, as far north as Sirion Mountain, which most people call Hermon Mountain.
\v 49 It also included all the area east of the Jordan River Valley, all the way south to the Dead Sea and east to the slopes of Pisgah Mountain.
