\c 1
\p
\v 1 In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of Jehovah by
Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high
priest, saying,
\v 2 Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, saying, This people say, It is not the time
for us to come, the time for Jehovah’s house to be built.
\v 3 Then came the word of Jehovah by Haggai the prophet, saying,
\v 4 Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your ceiled houses, while this house lies waste?
\v 5 Now therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts: Consider your ways.
\v 6 You have sown much, and bring in little; you eat, but you have not enough; you drink, but you are not filled with drink; you
clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages
to put it into a bag with holes.
\p
\v 7 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Consider your ways.
\v 8 Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, says
Jehovah.
\v 9 You looked for much, and, lo, it came to little; and when you brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why? says Jehovah of
hosts. Because of my house that lies waste, while you run every man to his own house.
\v 10 Therefore for your sake the heavens withhold the dew, and the earth withholdeth its fruit.
\v 11 And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the grain, and upon the new wine, and upon the
oil, and upon that which the ground brings forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labor of the hands.
\p
\v 12 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, with all the remnant of the
people, obeyed the voice of Jehovah their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as Jehovah their God had sent him; and the
people did fear before Jehovah.
\v 13 Then spoke Haggai Jehovah’s messenger in Jehovah’s message to the people, saying, I am with you, says Jehovah.
\v 14 And Jehovah stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son
of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work on the house of
Jehovah of hosts, their God,
\v 15 in the four and twentieth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.