\c 2
\p
\v 1 In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth day
of the month, came the word of Jehovah by Haggai the prophet, saying,
\v 2 Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and
to the remnant of the people, saying,
\v 3 Who is left among you that saw this house in its former glory? and how do you see it now? is it not in your eyous as
nothing?
\v 4 Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, says Jehovah; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong,
all you people of the land, says Jehovah, and work: for I am with you, says Jehovah of hosts,
\v 5 according to the word that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt, and my Spirit abode among you: fear
you not.
\v 6 For thus says Jehovah of hosts: Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea,
and the dry land;
\v 7 and I will shake all nations; and the precious things of all nations shall come; and I will fill this house with glory,
says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 8 The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 9 The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, says Jehovah of hosts; and in this place will I give
peace, says Jehovah of hosts.
\p
\v 10 In the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of
Jehovah by Haggai the prophet, saying,
\v 11 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,
\v 12 If one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or
any food, shall it become holy? And the priests answered and said, No.
\v 13 Then said Haggai, If one that is unclean by reason of a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean? And the
priests answered and said, It shall be unclean.
\v 14 Then answered Haggai and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, says Jehovah; and so is every work of
their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean.
\v 15 And now, I pray you, consider from this day and backward, before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of Jehovah.
\v 16 Through all that time, when one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten; when one came to the
winevat to draw out fifty vessels, there were but twenty.
\v 17 I struck you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the work of your hands; yout you
turned not to me, says Jehovah.
\v 18 Consider, I pray you, from this day and backward, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth
month, since the day that the foundation of Jehovah’s temple was laid, consider it.
\v 19 Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, the vine, and the fig-tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive-tree have not brought
forth; from this day will I bless you.
\p
\v 20 And the word of Jehovah came the second time to Haggai in the four and twentieth
day of the month, saying,
\v 21 Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth;
\v 22 and I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms; and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will
overthrow the chariots, and those that ride in them; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of
his brother.
\v 23 In that day, says Jehovah of hosts, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, says Jehovah, and
will make you as a signet; for I have chosen you, says Jehovah of hosts.