\c 2
\p
\v 1 Say you to your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.
\p
\v 2 Contend with your mother, contend; for she is not my wife, neither am I her husband; and let her put away her whoredoms
from her face, and her adulteries from between her breasts;
\v 3 lest I strip her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her as a wilderness, and set her like a dry
land, and kill her with thirst.
\v 4 Yea, upon her children will I have no mercy; for they are children of whoredom;
\v 5 for their mother has played the harlot; she that conceived them has done shamefully; for she said, I will go after my
lovers, that give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my drink.
\v 6 Therefore, behold, I will hedge up your way with thorns, and I will build a wall against her, that she shall not find her
paths.
\v 7 And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shall not overtake them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find them:
then shall she say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now.
\p
\v 8 For she did not know that I gave her the grain, and the new wine, and the oil, and multiplied to her silver and gold,
which they used for Baal.
\v 9 Therefore will I take back my grain in the time thereof, and my new wine in the season thereof, and will pluck away my
wool and my flax which should have covered her nakedness.
\v 10 And now will I uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and none shall deliver her out of my hand.
\v 11 I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feasts, her new moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies.
\v 12 And I will lay waste her vines and her fig-trees, whereof she has said, These are my hire that my lovers have given me;
and I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them.
\v 13 And I will visit upon her the days of the Baalim, to which she burned incense, when she decked herself with her
earrings and her jewels, and went after her lovers, and forgat me, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 14 Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak comfortably to her.
\v 15 And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope; and she shall make answer
there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.
\v 16 And it shall be at that day, says Jehovah, that you shall call me Ishi, and shall call me no more Baali.
\v 17 For I will take away the names of the Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall no more be mentioned by their name.
\v 18 And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field, and with the birds of the heavens, and with
the creeping things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and the battle out of the land, and will make them to
lie down safely.
\v 19 And I will betroth you to me for ever; yea, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, and in justice, and in
lovingkindness, and in mercies.
\v 20 I will even betroth you to me in faithfulness; and you shall know Jehovah.
\p
\v 21 And it shall come to pass in that day, I will answer, says Jehovah, I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the
earth;
\v 22 and the earth shall answer the grain, and the new wine, and the oil; and they shall answer Jezreel.
\v 23 And I will sow her to me in the earth; and I will have mercy upon her that had not obtained mercy; and I will say to
them that were not my people, You are my people; and they shall say,
You are my God.