\c 4
\p
\v 1 Hear the word of Jehovah, you children of Israel; for Jehovah has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because
there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God in the land.
\v 2 There is nothing but swearing and breaking faith, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery; they break out, and
blood touches blood.
\v 3 Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that lives therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field and the
birds of the heavens; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away.
\v 4 Yet let no man strive, neither let any man reprove; for your people are as they that strive with the priest.
\v 5 And you shall stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with you in the night; and I will destroy your
mother.
\p
\v 6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that you
shall be no priest to me: seeing you have forgotten the law of your God, I also will forget your children.
\v 7 As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me: I will change their glory into shame.
\v 8 They feed on the sin of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity.
\v 9 And it shall be, like people, like priest; and I will punish them for their ways, and will requite them their doings.
\v 10 And they shall eat, and not have enough; they shall play the harlot, and shall not increase; because they have left off
taking heed to Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the understanding.
\v 12 My people ask counsel at their stock, and their staff declares to them; for the spirit of whoredom has caused them to
err, and they have played the harlot, departing from under their God.
\v 13 They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths,
because the shadow thereof is good: therefore your daughters play the harlot, and your brides commit adultery.
\v 14 I will not punish your daughters when they play the harlot, nor your brides when they commit adultery; for
the men themselves go apart with harlots, and they sacrifice with the prostitutes; and the people that does not
understand shall be overthrown.
\p
\v 15 Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yout let not Judah offend; and come not you to Gilgal, neither go you up to
Beth-aven, nor swear, As Jehovah liveth.
\v 16 For Israel has behaved himself stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer: now will Jehovah feed them as a lamb in a large
place.
\v 17 Ephraim is joined to idols; let him alone.
\v 18 Their drink is become sour; they play the harlot continually; her rulers dearly love shame.
\v 19 The wind has wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall be put to shame because of their sacrifices.