\c 5
\p
\v 1 Hear this, O you priests, and hearken, O house of Israel, and give ear, O house of the king; for to you pertaineth the
judgment; for you have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.
\v 2 And the revolters are gone deep in making slaughter; but I am a rebuker of them all.
\v 3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me; for now, O Ephraim, you have played the harlot, Israel is defiled.
\v 4 Their doings will not suffer them to turn to their God; for the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not
Jehovah.
\v 5 And the pride of Israel does testify to his face: therefore Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in their iniquity; Judah also
shall stumble with them.
\v 6 They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek Jehovah; but they shall not find him: he has withdrawn
himself from them.
\v 7 They have dealt treacherously against Jehovah; for they have borne strange children: now shall the new moon devour them
with their fields.
\p
\v 8 Blow you the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: sound an alarm at Beth-aven; behind thee, O Benjamin.
\v 9 Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall
surely be.
\v 10 The princes of Judah are like them that remove the landmark: I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.
\v 11 Ephraim is oppressed, he is crushed in judgment; because he was content to walk after
man’s command.
\v 12 Therefore am I to Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness.
\v 13 When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went Ephraim to Assyria, and sent to king Jareb:
but he is not able to heal you, neither will he cure you of your wound.
\v 14 For I will be to Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will
carry off, and there shall be none to deliver.
\v 15 I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will
seek me earnestly.