\c 7
\p
\v 1 When I would heal Israel, then is the iniquity of Ephraim uncovered, and the wickedness of Samaria; for they commit
falsehood, and the thief enters in, and the troop of robbers ravageth without.
\v 2 And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness: now have their own doings beset them about;
they are before my face.
\v 3 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.
\v 4 They are all adulterers; they are as an oven heated by the baker; he ceaseth to stir
the fire, from the kneading of the dough, until it be leavened.
\v 5 On the day of our king the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with scoffers.
\v 6 For they have made ready their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the
morning it burns as a flaming fire.
\v 7 They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calls
to me.
\p
\v 8 Ephraim, he mixeth himself among the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned.
\v 9 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knows it not: yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he
knows it not.
\v 10 And the pride of Israel does testify to his face: yet they have not returned to Jehovah their God, nor sought him, for
all this.
\v 11 And Ephraim is like a silly dove, without understanding: they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria.
\v 12 When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the birds of the heavens; I will chastise
them, as their congregation has heard.
\v 13 Woe to them! for they have wandered from me; destruction to them! for they have trespassed against me: though I would
redeem them, yet they have spoken lies against me.
\v 14 And they have not cried to me with their heart, but they howl upon their beds: they assemble themselves for grain and
new wine; they rebel against me.
\v 15 Though I have taught and strengthened their arms, yet do they devise mischief against me.
\v 16 They return, but not to him that is on high; they are like a deceitful bow; their princes shall fall by the
sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.