\c 9
\p
\v 1 Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, like the peoples; for you have played the harlot,
departing from your God; you have loved hire upon every grain-floor.
\v 2 The threshing floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail her.
\v 3 They shall not dwell in Jehovah’s land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
\v 4 They shall not pour out wine-offerings to Jehovah, neither shall they be pleasing to him: their sacrifices
shall be to them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted; for their bread shall be for their
appetite; it shall not come into the house of Jehovah.
\v 5 What will you do in the day of solemn assembly, and in the day of the feast of Jehovah?
\v 6 For, lo, they are gone away from destruction; yet Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; their
pleasant things of silver, nettles shall possess them; thorns shall be in their tents.
\v 7 The days of visitation are come, the days of recompense are come; Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the man
that has the spirit is mad, for the abundance of your iniquity, and because the enmity is great.
\v 8 Ephraim was a watchman with my God: as for the prophet, a fowler’s snare is in all his ways,
and enmity in the house of his God.
\v 9 They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah: he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their
sins.
\p
\v 10 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the first-ripe in the fig tree at its first season:
but they came to Baal-peor, and consecrated themselves to the shameful thing, and became abominable like that which they
loved.
\v 11 As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird: there shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception.
\v 12 Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, so that not a man shall be left: yea, woe also to them when
I depart from them!
\v 13 Ephraim, like as I have seen Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring out his children to the
slayer.
\v 14 Give them, O Jehovah—what will you give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
\v 15 All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them: because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them
out of my house; I will love them no more; all their princes are revolters.
\v 16 Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I kill the
beloved fruit of their womb.
\v 17 My God will cast them away, because they did not listen to him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations.