\c 10
\p
\v 1 Israel is a luxuriant vine, that puts forth his fruit: according to the abundance of his fruit he has multiplied his
altars; according to the goodness of their land they have made goodly pillars.
\v 2 Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he will strike their altars, he will destroy their pillars.
\v 3 Surely now shall they say, We have no king; for we fear not Jehovah; and the king, what can he do for us?
\p
\v 4 They speak vain words, swearing falsely in making covenants: therefore judgment springeth up as hemlock in the
furrows of the field.
\v 5 The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in terror for the calves of Beth-aven; for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and
the priests thereof that rejoiced over it, for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it.
\v 6 It also shall be carried to Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be
ashamed of his own counsel.
\v 7 As for Samaria, her king is cut off, as foam upon the water.
\v 8 The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their
altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us.
\v 9 O Israel, you have sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood; the battle against the children of iniquity does not
overtake them in Gibeah.
\p
\v 10 When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples shall be gathered against them, when they are bound to their
two transgressions.
\v 11 And Ephraim is a heifer that is taught, that loves to tread out
the grain; but I have passed over upon her fair neck: I will set a rider on Ephraim; Judah shall plow, Jacob shall
break his clods.
\p
\v 12 Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness; break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek
Jehovah, till he come and rain righteousness upon you.
\v 13 You have plowed wickedness, you have reaped iniquity; you have eaten the fruit of lies; for you did trust in your way, in
the multitude of your mighty men.
\v 14 Therefore shall a tumult arise among your people, and all your fortresses shall be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed
Beth-arbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with her children.
\v 15 So shall Beth-el do to you because of your great wickedness: at daybreak shall the king of Israel be utterly cut off.