\c 2
\p
\v 1 And when he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it was noised that he was in the house.
\v 2 And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room
for them, no, not even about the door: and he spoke the word to them.
\v 3 And they come, bringing to him a man sick of the palsy, borne of four.
\v 4 And when they could not come near to him for the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken
it up, they let down the bed whereon the sick of the palsy lay.
\v 5 And Jesus seeing their faith says to the sick of the palsy, Son, your sins are forgiven.
\v 6 But there were certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,
\v 7 Why does this man thus speak? he blasphemeth: who can forgive sins but one,
even God?
\v 8 And straightway Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, says to them, Why reason you
these things in your hearts?
\v 9 Which is easier, to say to the sick of the palsy, Your sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise, and take up your bed, and walk?
\v 10 But that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins (he says to the sick of the palsy),
\v 11 I say to thee, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house.
\v 12 And he arose, and straightway took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and
glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion.
\p
\v 13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted to him, and he taught them.
\v 14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the place of toll, and he says to him, Follow
me. And he arose and followed him.
\p
\v 15 And it came to pass, that he was sitting at meat in his house, and many publicans and sinners sat down with Jesus and his
disciples: for there were many, and they followed him.
\v 16 And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with the sinners and publicans, said to his
disciples, How is it that he eats and drinks with publicans and sinners?
\v 17 And when Jesus heard it, he says to them, They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I
came not to call the righteous, but sinners.
\p
\v 18 And John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting: and they come and say to him, Why do John’s disciples and the
disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples fast not?
\v 19 And Jesus said to them, Can the sons of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have
the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
\v 20 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then will they fast in that day.
\v 21 No man seweth a piece of undressed cloth on an old garment: else that which should fill it up takes from it, the new
from the old, and a worse tore is made.
\v 22 And no man puts new wine into old wineskins; else the wine will burst the skins, and the wine perisheth, and the
skins: but they put new wine into fresh wine-skins.
\p
\v 23 And it came to pass, that he was going on the sabbath day through the grainfields; and his disciples began, as they went,
to pluck the ears.
\v 24 And the Pharisees said to him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful?
\v 25 And he said to them, Did you never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry, he, and they that were with
him?
\v 26 How he entered into the house of God when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the showbread, which it is not lawful to eat
save for the priests, and gave also to them that were with him?
\v 27 And he said to them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath:
\v 28 so that the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.