\c 5
\p
\v 1 And they came to the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gerasenes.
\v 2 And when he was come out of the boat, straightway there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
\v 3 who had his dwelling in the tombs: and no man could any more bind him, no, not with a chain;
\v 4 because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been tore asunder by him, and the fetters
broken in pieces: and no man had strength to tame him.
\v 5 And always, night and day, in the tombs and in the mountains, he was crying out, and cutting himself with stones.
\v 6 And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and worshipped him;
\v 7 and crying out with a loud voice, he saith, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, you Son of the Most High God? I adjure
you by God, torment me not.
\v 8 For he said to him, Come forth, you unclean spirit, out of the man.
\v 9 And he asked him, What is your name? And he says to him, My name is Legion; for we are many.
\v 10 And he implored him much that he would not send them away out of the country.
\v 11 Now there was there on the mountain side a great herd of swine feeding.
\v 12 And they implored him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.
\v 13 And he gave them leave. And the unclean spirits came out, and entered into the swine: and the herd rushed down the steep
into the sea, in number about two thousand; and they were drowned in the sea.
\v 14 And they that fed them fled, and told it in the city, and in the country. And they came to see what it was that had come
to pass.
\v 15 And they come to Jesus, and behold him that was possessed with demons sitting, clothed and in his right mind,
even him that had the legion: and they were afraid.
\v 16 And they that saw it declared to them how it befell him that was possessed with demons, and concerning the swine.
\v 17 And they began to beseech him to depart from their borders.
\v 18 And as he was entering into the boat, he that had been possessed with demons implored him that he might be with him.
\v 19 And he suffered him not, but says to him, Go to your house to your friends, and tell them how great things the Lord
has done for thee, and how he had mercy on thee.
\v 20 And he went his way, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him: and all men marvelled.
\p
\v 21 And when Jesus had crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a great multitude was gathered to him; and he
was by the sea.
\v 22 And there comes one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name; and seeing him, he falls at his feet,
\v 23 and implores him much, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death:
I pray thee, that you come and lay your hands on her, that she may be made whole, and live.
\v 24 And he went with him; and a great multitude followed him, and they thronged him.
\p
\v 25 And a woman, who had an issue of blood twelve years,
\v 26 and had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather
grew worse,
\v 27 having heard the things concerning Jesus, came in the crowd behind, and touched his garment.
\v 28 For she said, If I touch but his garments, I shall be made whole.
\v 29 And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in her body that she was healed of her plague.
\v 30 And straightway Jesus, perceiving in himself that the power
proceeding from him had gone forth, turned him about in the crowd, and said, Who touched my garments?
\v 31 And his disciples said to him, You see the multitude thronging thee, and say thou, Who touched me?
\v 32 And he looked round about to see her that had done this thing.
\v 33 But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him, and told him all
the truth.
\v 34 And he said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you whole; go in peace, and be whole of your plague.
\p
\v 35 While he yet spake, they come from the ruler of the synagogue’s
house, saying, Your daughter is dead: why trouble you the Teacher any further?
\v 36 But Jesus, not heeding the word spoken, says to the ruler of the synagogue, Fear not, only believe.
\v 37 And he suffered no man to follow with him, save Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.
\v 38 And they come to the house of the ruler of the synagogue; and he sees a tumult, and
many weeping and wailing greatly.
\v 39 And when he was entered in, he says to them, Why make you a tumult, and weep? the child is not dead, but sleepeth.
\v 40 And they laughed him to scorn. But he, having put them all forth, takes the father of the child and her mother and them
that were with him, and goes in where the child was.
\v 41 And taking the child by the hand, he says to her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say to thee,
Arise.
\v 42 And straightway the damsel rose up, and walked; for she was twelve years old. And they were amazed straightway with a
great amazement.
\v 43 And he charged them much that no man should know this: and he commanded that
something should be given her to eat.