\c 6
\p
\v 1 And he went out from thence; and he comes into his own country; and his disciples follow him.
\v 2 And when the sabbath was come, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, Whence
has this man these things? and, What is the wisdom that is given to this man, and
what mean such mighty works wrought by his hands?
\v 3 Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joses, and Judas, and Simon? and are not his sisters
here with us? And they were offended in him.
\v 4 And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own
house.
\v 5 And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them.
\v 6 And he marveled because of their unbelief.
\p And he went round about the villages teaching.
\p
\v 7 And he calls to him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two and two; and he gave them authority over the
unclean spirits;
\v 8 and he charged them that they should take nothing for their
journey, save a staff only; no bread, no wallet, no money in their purse;
\v 9 but to go shod with sandals: and, said he, put not on two coats.
\v 10 And he said to them, Wherever you enter into a house, there abide till you depart thence.
\v 11 And whatever place shall not receive you, and they hear you not, as you go forth thence, shake off the dust that is
under your feet for a testimony to them.
\v 12 And they went out, and preached that men should repent.
\v 13 And they cast out many demons, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them.
\p
\v 14 And king Herod heard thereof; for his name had become known: and he said, John the Baptizer is risen from the
dead, and therefore do these powers work in him.
\v 15 But others said, It is Elijah. And others said, It is a prophet,
even as one of the prophets.
\v 16 But Herod, when he heard thereof, said, John, whom I beheaded, he is risen.
\v 17 For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother
Philip’s wife; for he had married her.
\v 18 For John said to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.
\v 19 And Herodias set herself against him, and desired to kill him; and she could not;
\v 20 for Herod feared John, knowing that he was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. And when he heard him, he was
much perplexed; and he heard him gladly.
\v 21 And when a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthday made a supper to his lords, and the high captains, and the
chief men of Galilee;
\v 22 and when the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced, she pleased Herod and them that sat at meat with him; and
the king said to the damsel, Ask of me whatever you wilt, and I will give it thee.
\v 23 And he sware to her, Whatsoever you shall ask of me, I will give it thee, to the half of my kingdom.
\v 24 And she went out, and said to her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptizer.
\v 25 And she came in straightway with haste to the king, and asked, saying, I will that you forthwith give me on a platter
the head of John the Baptist.
\v 26 And the king was exceeding sorry; but for the sake of his oaths, and of them that sat at meat, he would not reject her.
\v 27 And straightway the king sent forth a soldier of his guard, and commanded to bring his head: and he went and beheaded him
in the prison,
\v 28 and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the damsel; and the damsel gave it to her mother.
\v 29 And when his disciples heard thereof, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.
\p
\v 30 And the apostles gather themselves together to Jesus; and they told him all things, whatever they had done, and
whatever they had taught.
\v 31 And he says to them, Come you yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a while. For there were many coming and
going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat.
\v 32 And they went away in the boat to a desert place apart.
\v 33 And the people saw them going, and many knew them, and they ran together there on foot from all the
cities, and outwent them.
\v 34 And he came forth and saw a great multitude, and he had compassion on them, because they were as sheep not having a
shepherd: and he began to teach them many things.
\v 35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came to him, and said, The place is desert, and the day is now far
spent;
\v 36 send them away, that they may go into the country and villages round about, and buy themselves somewhat to eat.
\v 37 But he answered and said to them, Give you them to eat. And they say to him, Shall we go and buy two hundred
shillings’ worth of bread, and give them to eat?
\v 38 And he says to them, How many loaves have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two
fishes.
\v 39 And he commanded them that all should sit down by companies upon the green grass.
\v 40 And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties.
\v 41 And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake the loaves; and he gave
to the disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided he among them all.
\v 42 And they all ate, and were filled.
\v 43 And they took up broken pieces, twelve basketfuls, and also of the fishes.
\v 44 And they that ate the loaves were five thousand men.
\p
\v 45 And straightway he constrained his disciples to enter into the boat, and to go before
him to the other side to Bethsaida, while he himself sends the multitude away.
\v 46 And after he had taken leave of them, he departed into the mountain to pray.
\v 47 And when even was come, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on the land.
\v 48 And seeing them distressed in rowing, for the wind was contrary to them, about the fourth watch of the night he comes
to them, walking on the sea; and he would have passed by them:
\v 49 but they, when they saw him walking on the sea, supposed that it was a ghost, and cried out;
\v 50 for they all saw him, and were troubled. But he straightway spoke with them, and says to them, Be of good cheer: it is
I; be not afraid.
\v 51 And he went up to them into the boat; and the wind ceased: and they were sore amazed in themselves;
\v 52 for they understood not concerning the loaves, but their heart was hardened.
\p
\v 53 And when they had crossed over, they came to the land to Gennesaret, and moored to the shore.
\v 54 And when they were come out of the boat, straightway the people
knew him,
\v 55 and ran round about that whole region, and began to carry about on their beds those that were sick, where they heard he
was.
\v 56 And wherever he entered, into villages, or into cities, or into the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces,
and implored him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment: and as many as touched him were made whole.