\c 10
\p
\v 1 And he arose from thence, and comes into the borders of Judaea and beyond the Jordan: and multitudes come together to
him again; and, as he was wont, he taught them again.
\p
\v 2 And there came to him Pharisees, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away
his wife? trying him.
\v 3 And he answered and said to them, What did Moses command you?
\v 4 And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away.
\v 5 But Jesus said to them, For your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment.
\v 6 But from the beginning of the creation, Male and female made he them.
\v 7 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife;
\v 8 and the two shall become one flesh: so that they are no more two, but one flesh.
\v 9 What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder.
\v 10 And in the house the disciples asked him again of this matter.
\v 11 And he says to them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her:
\v 12 and if she herself shall put away her husband, and marry another, she committeth adultery.
\p
\v 13 And they were bringing to him little children, that he should touch them: and the disciples rebuked them.
\v 14 But when Jesus saw it, he was moved with indignation, and said to them, Suffer the little children to come to me;
forbid them not: for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
\v 15 Verily I say to you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in no wise enter
therein.
\v 16 And he took them in his arms, and blessed them, laying his hands upon them.
\p
\v 17 And as he was going forth into the way, there ran one to him, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Teacher, what shall
I do that I may inherit eternal life?
\v 18 And Jesus said to him, Why call you me good? none is good save one,
even God.
\v 19 You know the commandments, Do not kill, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not
defraud, Honor your father and mother.
\v 20 And he said to him, Teacher, all these things have I observed from my youth.
\v 21 And Jesus looking upon him loved him, and said to him, One thing you lackest: go, sell whatever you hast, and give
to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
\v 22 But his countenance fell at the saying, and he went away sorrowful: for he was one that had great possessions.
\p
\v 23 And Jesus looked round about, and says to his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom
of God!
\v 24 And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answereth again, and says to them, Children, how hard is it for
them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
\v 25 It is easier for a camel to go through a needle’s eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
\v 26 And they were astonished exceedingly, saying to him, Then who can be saved?
\v 27 Jesus looking upon them saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for all things are possible with God.
\v 28 Peter began to say to him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee.
\v 29 Jesus said, Verily I say to you, There is no man that has left house, or brethren, or sisters, or mother, or father,
or children, or lands, for my sake, and for the gospel’s sake,
\v 30 but he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and
lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life.
\v 31 But many that are first shall be last; and the last first.
\p
\v 32 And they were on the way, going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus was going before them: and they were amazed; and they that
followed were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them the things that were to happen to him,
\v 33 saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered to the chief priests and the
scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles:
\v 34 and they shall mock him, and shall spit upon him, and shall scourge him, and shall kill him; and after three days he
shall rise again.
\p
\v 35 And there come near to him James and John, the sons of Zebedee, saying to him, Teacher, we would that you should
do for us whatever we shall ask of thee.
\v 36 And he said to them, What would you that I should do for you?
\v 37 And they said to him, Grant to us that we may sit, one on your right hand, and one on
your left hand, in your glory.
\v 38 But Jesus said to them, You know not what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink? or to be baptized with the
baptism that I am baptized with?
\v 39 And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink you shall drink; and with the baptism
that I am baptized withal shall you be baptized:
\v 40 but to sit on my right hand or on my left hand is not mine to give; but
it is for them for whom it has been prepared.
\v 41 And when the ten heard it, they began to be moved with indignation concerning James and John.
\v 42 And Jesus called them to him, and says to them, You know that they who are accounted to rule over the Gentiles lord it
over them; and their great ones exercise authority over them.
\v 43 But it is not so among you: but whoever would become great among you, shall be your minister;
\v 44 and whoever would be first among you, shall be servant of all.
\v 45 For the Son of man also came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.
\p
\v 46 And they come to Jericho: and as he went out from Jericho, with his disciples and a great multitude, the son of Timaeus,
Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, was sitting by the way side.
\v 47 And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on
me.
\v 48 And many rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried out the more a great deal, You son of David, have
mercy on me.
\v 49 And Jesus stood still, and said, Call you him. And they call the blind man, saying to him, Be of good cheer: rise, he
calls thee.
\v 50 And he, casting away his garment, sprang up, and came to Jesus.
\v 51 And Jesus answered him, and said, What will you that I should do to thee? And the blind man said to him, Rabboni,
that I may receive my sight.
\v 52 And Jesus said to him, Go your way; your faith has made you whole. And straightway he received his sight, and followed
him in the way.