\c 1
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for
us first against the Canaanites, to fight against them?
\v 2 And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
\v 3 And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I
likewise will go with you into your lot. So Simeon went with him.
\v 4 And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand: and they struck of them in
Bezek ten thousand men.
\v 5 And they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek; and they fought against him, and they struck the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
\v 6 But Adoni-bezek fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and his great toes.
\v 7 And Adoni-bezek said, Threescore and ten kings, having their thumbs and their great toes cut off, gathered
their food under my table: as I have done, so God has requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died
there.
\p
\v 8 And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and set the city
on fire.
\v 9 And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites that lived in the hill-country, and in the
South, and in the lowland.
\v 10 And Judah went against the Canaanites that lived in Hebron (now the name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba); and they
struck Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
\p
\v 11 And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir. (Now the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.)
\v 12 And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and takes it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
\v 13 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
\v 14 And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted
from off her ass; and Caleb said to her, What would thou?
\v 15 And she said to him, Give me a blessing; for that you have set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of
water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
\p
\v 16 And the children of the Kenite, Moses’ brother-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah
into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and lived with the people.
\v 17 And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they struck the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it.
And the name of the city was called Hormah.
\v 18 Also Judah took Gaza with the border thereof, and Ashkelon with the border thereof, and Ekron with the border thereof.
\v 19 And Jehovah was with Judah; and drove out the inhabitants of
the hill-country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
\v 20 And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had spoken: and he drove out thence the three sons of Anak.
\v 21 And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the
children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
\p
\v 22 And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
\v 23 And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el. (Now the name of the city beforetime was Luz.)
\v 24 And the watchers saw a man come forth out of the city, and they said to him, Show us, we pray thee, the entrance into
the city, and we will deal kindly with thee.
\v 25 And he showed them the entrance into the city; and they struck the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man
go and all his family.
\v 26 And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz, which is the name
thereof to this day.
\p
\v 27 And Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its towns, nor
of Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor
the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
\v 28 And it came to pass, when Israel was waxed strong, that they put the Canaanites to taskwork, and did not utterly drive
them out.
\p
\v 29 And Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites that lived in Gezer; but the Canaanites lived in Gezer among them.
\p
\v 30 Zebulun drove not out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites lived among them, and
became subject to taskwork.
\p
\v 31 Asher drove not out the inhabitants of Acco, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah,
nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob;
\v 32 but the Asherites lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
\p
\v 33 Naphtali drove not out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-anath; but he lived among the
Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-anath became subject to
taskwork.
\p
\v 34 And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the hill-country; for they would not suffer them to come down to the
valley;
\v 35 but the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed,
so that they became subject to taskwork.
\v 36 And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.