\c 3
\p
\v 1 Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, even as many
of Israel as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
\v 2 only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as beforetime knew
nothing thereof:
\v 3 namely, the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that
lived in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon to the entrance of Hamath.
\v 4 And they were left, to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would listen to the commandments of
Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
\v 5 And the children of Israel lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the
Hivites, and the Jebusites:
\v 6 and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods.
\p
\v 7 And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the
Baalim and the Asheroth.
\v 8 Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim king of
Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years.
\v 9 And when the children of Israel cried to Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a savior to the children of Israel, who saved them,
even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother.
\v 10 And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah delivered
Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand: and his hand prevailed against Cushan-rishathaim.
\v 11 And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
\p
\v 12 And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king
of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
\v 13 And he gathered to him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and struck Israel, and they possessed the city of
palm-trees.
\v 14 And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
\p
\v 15 But when the children of Israel cried to Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a saviour, Ehud the son of Gera, the
Benjamite, a man left-handed. And the children of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon the king of Moab.
\v 16 And Ehud made him a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right
thigh.
\v 17 And he offered the tribute to Eglon king of Moab: now Eglon was a very fat man.
\v 18 And when he had made an end of offering the tribute, he sent away the people that bare the tribute.
\v 19 But he himself turned back from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand to thee, O king. And
he said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
\v 20 And Ehud came to him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper room. And Ehud said, I have a message from
God to thee. And he arose out of his seat.
\v 21 And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
\v 22 and the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, for he drew not the sword out of his body;
and it came out behind.
\v 23 Then Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper room upon him, and locked them.
\p
\v 24 Now when he was gone out, his servants came; and they saw, and, behold, the doors of the upper room were locked; and they
said, Surely he is covering his feet in the upper chamber.
\v 25 And they tarried till they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper room: therefore they took the
key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.
\p
\v 26 And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped to Seirah.
\v 27 And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel
went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them.
\v 28 And he said to them, Follow after me; for Jehovah has delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they
went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and suffered not a man to pass over.
\v 29 And they struck of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every lusty man, and every man of valor; and there escaped
not a man.
\v 30 So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
\p
\v 31 And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who struck of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox-goad: and he also
saved Israel.