\c 4
\p
\v 1 And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, when Ehud was dead.
\v 2 And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera,
who lived in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
\v 3 And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily
oppressed the children of Israel.
\p
\v 4 Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, she judged Israel at that time.
\v 5 And she lived under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of
Israel came up to her for judgment.
\v 6 And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh-naphtali, and said to him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of
Israel, commanded, saying, Go and draw to mount Tabor, and take with you ten thousand men of the children of
Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
\v 7 And I will draw to thee, to the river Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin’s army, with his chariots and his multitude;
and I will deliver him into your hand.
\v 8 And Barak said to her, If you will go with me, then I will go; but if you will not go with me, I will not go.
\v 9 And she said, I will surely go with thee: notwithstanding, the journey that you take shall not be for your honor; for
Jehovah will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
\v 10 And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali together to Kedesh; and there went up ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah
went up with him.
\p
\v 11 Now Heber the Kenite had separated himself from the Kenites, even from the children of Hobab the brother-in-law of Moses,
and had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
\p
\v 12 And they told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to mount Tabor.
\v 13 And Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him,
from Harosheth of the Gentiles, to the river Kishon.
\v 14 And Deborah said to Barak, Up; for this is the day in which Jehovah has delivered Sisera into your hand; is not Jehovah
gone out before thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
\v 15 And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; and
Sisera alighted from his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
\v 16 But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, to Harosheth of the Gentiles: and all the host of Sisera fell
by the edge of the sword; there was not a man left.
\p
\v 17 Howbeit Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin
the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
\v 18 And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me; fear not. And he turned in to her
into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
\v 19 And he said to her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk,
and gave him drink, and covered him.
\v 20 And he said to her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man does come and inquire of thee, and
say, Is there any man here? that you shall say, No.
\v 21 Then Jael Heber’s wife took a tent-pin, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and struck the pin into
his temples, and it pierced through into the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he swooned and died.
\v 22 And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said to him, Come, and I will show you the man
whom you seekest. And he came to her; and, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the tent-pin was in his temples.
\p
\v 23 So God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
\v 24 And the hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed
Jabin king of Canaan.