\c 6
\p
\v 1 And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of
Midian seven years.
\v 2 And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of Midian the children of Israel made them the dens which are
in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
\v 3 And so it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east; they
came up against them;
\v 4 and they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, till you come to Gaza, and left no sustenance
in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
\v 5 For they came up with their cattle and their tents; they came in as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were
without number: and they came into the land to destroy it.
\v 6 And Israel was brought very low because of Midian; and the children of Israel cried to Jehovah.
\p
\v 7 And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried to Jehovah because of Midian,
\v 8 that Jehovah sent a prophet to the children of Israel: and he said to them, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, I
brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
\v 9 and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out
from before you, and gave you their land;
\v 10 and I said to you, I am Jehovah your God; you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But you
have not listened to my voice.
\p
\v 11 And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained to Joash the Abiezrite: and
his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
\v 12 And the angel of Jehovah appeared to him, and said to him, Jehovah is with thee, you mighty man of valor.
\v 13 And Gideon said to him, Oh, my lord, if Jehovah is with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his
wondrous works which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah has cast us off,
and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
\v 14 And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this your might, and save Israel from the hand of Midian: have not I sent
thee?
\v 15 And he said to him, Oh, Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the
least in my father’s house.
\v 16 And Jehovah said to him, Surely I will be with thee, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man.
\v 17 And he said to him, If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you that talkest with me.
\v 18 Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come to thee, and bring forth my present, and lay it before thee. And he said, I
will wait until you come again.
\p
\v 19 And Gideon went in, and made ready a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal: the flesh he put in a basket, and he
put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
\v 20 And the angel of God said to him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out
the broth. And he did so.
\v 21 Then the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened
cakes; and there went up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and the angel of Jehovah
departed out of his sight.
\v 22 And Gideon saw that he was the angel of Jehovah; and Gideon said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah! forasmuch as I have seen the
angel of Jehovah face to face.
\v 23 And Jehovah said to him, Peace be to thee; fear not: you shall not die.
\v 24 Then Gideon built an altar there to Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-shalom: to this day it is yet in Ophrah of the
Abiezrites.
\p
\v 25 And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said to him, Take your father’s bullock, even the second bullock seven
years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that your father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it;
\v 26 and build an altar to Jehovah your God upon the top of this stronghold, in the orderly manner, and take the second
bullock, and offer a burnt offering with the wood of the Asherah which you shall cut down.
\v 27 Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken to him: and it came to pass, because he feared
his father’s household and the men of the city, so that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
\p
\v 28 And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was
cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
\v 29 And they said one to another, Who has done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of
Joash has done this thing.
\v 30 Then the men of the city said to Joash, Bring out your son, that he may die, because he has broken down the altar of
Baal, and because he has cut down the Asherah that was by it.
\v 31 And Joash said to all that stood against him, Will you contend for Baal? Or will you save him? he that will contend for
him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him contend for himself, because one has
broken down his altar.
\v 32 Therefore on that day he called him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal contend against him, because he has broken down his
altar.
\p
\v 33 Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east assembled themselves together; and they passed
over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
\v 34 But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon; and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together after him.
\v 35 And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together after him: and he sent messengers
to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
\p
\v 36 And Gideon said to God, If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have spoken,
\v 37 behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing-floor; if there be dew on the fleece only, and it be dry upon all
the ground, then shall I know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you have spoken.
\v 38 And it was so; for he rose up early on the morrow, and pressed the fleece together, and wrung the dew out of the fleece,
a bowlful of water.
\v 39 And Gideon said to God, Let not your anger be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once: let me make trial, I
pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the ground let there be dew.
\v 40 And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.