\c 7
\p
\v 1 Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the spring of
Harod: and the camp of Midian was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
\p
\v 2 And Jehovah said to Gideon, The people that are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand,
lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand has saved me.
\v 3 Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart
from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
\p
\v 4 And Jehovah said to Gideon, The people are yet too many; bring them down to the water, and I will try them for you
there: and it shall be, that of whom I say to thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whoever I
say to thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
\v 5 So he brought down the people to the water: and Jehovah said to Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his
tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shall you set by himself; likewise every one that bows down upon his knees to drink.
\v 6 And the number of them that lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: but all the rest of the
people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
\v 7 And Jehovah said to Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into your
hand; and let all the people go every man to his place.
\v 8 So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel every man to his tent,
but retained the three hundred men: and the camp of Midian was beneath him in the valley.
\p
\v 9 And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said to him, Arise, get you down into the camp; for I have delivered
it into your hand.
\v 10 But if you fear to go down, go you with Purah your servant down to the camp:
\v 11 and you shall hear what they say; and afterward shall your hands be strengthened to go down into the camp. Then went he
down with Purah his servant to the outermost part of the armed men that were in the camp.
\v 12 And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like locusts for
multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand which is upon the sea-shore for multitude.
\v 13 And when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man telling a dream to his fellow; and he said, Behold, I dreamed a
dream; and, lo, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and struck it so that it fell,
and turned it upside down, so that the tent lay flat.
\v 14 And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel: into
his hand God has delivered Midian, and all the host.
\p
\v 15 And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped; and he
returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah has delivered into your hand the host of Midian.
\v 16 And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put into the hands of all of them trumpets, and empty
pitchers, with torches within the pitchers.
\v 17 And he said to them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall
be that, as I do, so shall you do.
\v 18 When I blow the trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow you the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and
say, For Jehovah and for Gideon.
\p
\v 19 So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the
middle watch, when they had but newly set the watch: and they blew the trumpets, and brake in pieces the pitchers that were in
their hands.
\v 20 And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the pitchers, and held the torches in their left hands, and the
trumpets in their right hands wherewith to blow; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah and of Gideon.
\v 21 And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran; and they shouted, and put
them to flight.
\v 22 And they blew the three hundred trumpets, and Jehovah set every man’s sword against his fellow, and against all the host;
and the host fled as far as Beth-shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel-meholah, by Tabbath.
\v 23 And the men of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued
after Midian.
\p
\v 24 And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before
them the waters, as far as Beth-barah, even the Jordan. So all the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and took the waters
as far as Beth-barah, even the Jordan.
\v 25 And they took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and Zeeb they killed at the
winepress of Zeeb, and pursued Midian: and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.