\c 11
\p
\v 1 Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot: and Gilead became the father of Jephthah.
\v 2 And Gilead’s wife bare him sons; and when his wife’s sons grew up, they drove out Jephthah, and said to him, You shall
not inherit in our father’s house; for you are the son of another woman.
\v 3 Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and lived in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain fellows to Jephthah, and
they went out with him.
\p
\v 4 And it came to pass after a while, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
\v 5 And it was so, that, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out
of the land of Tob;
\v 6 and they said to Jephthah, Come and be our chief, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
\v 7 And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, Did not you hate me, and drive me out of my father’s house? and why are you
come to me now when you are in distress?
\v 8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, Therefore are we turned again to you now, that you may go with us, and
fight with the children of Ammon; and you shall be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
\v 9 And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, If you bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and Jehovah
deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
\v 10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, Jehovah shall be witness between us; surely according to your word so will we
do.
\v 11 Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them: and Jephthah spoke all
his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
\p
\v 12 And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have you to do with me, that you are
come to me to fight against my land?
\v 13 And the king of the children of Ammon answered to the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when he
came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan: now therefore restore those
lands again peaceably.
\v 14 And Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon;
\v 15 and he said to him, Thus says Jephthah: Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
\v 16 but when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
\v 17 then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through your land; but the king of
Edom listened not. And in like manner he sent to the king of Moab; but he would not: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
\v 18 Then they went through the wilderness, and went around the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side
of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they came not within the border of Moab, for the
Arnon was the border of Moab.
\v 19 And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, Let us pass,
we pray thee, through your land to my place.
\v 20 But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in
Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
\v 21 And Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they struck them: so
Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
\v 22 And they possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to
the Jordan.
\v 23 So now Jehovah, the God of Israel, has dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and should you
possess them?
\v 24 Wilt not you possess that which Chemosh your god gives you to possess? So whoever Jehovah our God has dispossessed
from before us, them will we possess.
\v 25 And now are you anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever strive against Israel, or did he
ever fight against them?
\v 26 While Israel lived in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along by the side
of the Arnon, three hundred youars; wherefore did you not recover them within that time?
\v 27 I therefore have not sinned against thee, but you do me wrong to war against me: Jehovah, the Judge, be judge this
day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
\v 28 Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon listened not to the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
\p
\v 29 Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead,
and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
\v 30 And Jephthah vowed a vow to Jehovah, and said, If you will indeed deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
\v 31 then it shall be, that whatever comes forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the
children of Ammon, it shall be Jehovah’s, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
\v 32 So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
\v 33 And he struck them from Aroer until you come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and to Abelcheramim, with a very great
slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
\p
\v 34 And Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances:
and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
\v 35 And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he tore his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! you have brought me very
low, and you are one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth to Jehovah, and I cannot go back.
\v 36 And she said to him, My father, you have opened your mouth to Jehovah; do to me according to that which has
proceeded out of your mouth, forasmuch as Jehovah has taken vengeance for you on your enemies, even on the children of Ammon.
\v 37 And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may depart and go down upon
the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my companions.
\v 38 And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and bewailed her
virginity upon the mountains.
\v 39 And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow
which he had vowed: and she knew not man. And it was a custom in Israel,
\v 40 that the daughters of Israel went yearly to celebrate the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.