\c 12
\p
\v 1 And the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said to Jephthah, Wherefore passedst you
over to fight against the children of Ammon, and did not call us to go with you? we will burn your house upon you with fire.
\v 2 And Jephthah said to them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, you
saved me not out of their hand.
\v 3 And when I saw that you saved me not, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah
delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are you come up to me this day, to fight against me?
\v 4 Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead struck Ephraim,
because they said, You are fugitives of Ephraim, you Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim,
and in the midst of Manasseh.
\v 5 And the Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against the Ephraimites. And it was so, that, when
any of the fugitives of Ephraim said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said to him, Are you an Ephraimite? If he
said, Nay;
\v 6 then said they to him, Say now Shibboleth; and he said Sibboleth; for he could not frame to pronounce it right: then
they laid hold on him, and killed him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim forty and two thousand.
\p
\v 7 And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then died Jephthah the Gileadite, and was buried in
one of the cities of Gilead.
\p
\v 8 And after him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
\v 9 And he had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent abroad, and thirty daughters he brought in from abroad for his sons.
And he judged Israel seven years.
\v 10 And Ibzan died, and was buried at Beth-lehem.
\v 11 And after him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
\v 12 And Elon the Zebulunite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
\p
\v 13 And after him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
\v 14 And he had forty sons and thirty sons’ sons, that rode on threescore and ten ass colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
\v 15 And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country
of the Amalekites.