\c 13
\p
\v 1 And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand
of the Philistines forty years.
\p
\v 2 And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and
bare not.
\v 3 And the angel of Jehovah appeared to the woman, and said to her, Behold now, you are barren, and bear not; but
you shall conceive, and bear a son.
\v 4 Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
\v 5 for, lo, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite
to God from the womb: and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
\v 6 Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came to me, and his countenance was like the countenance
of the angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
\v 7 but he said to me, Behold, you shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any
unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.
\p
\v 8 Then Manoah entreated Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, I pray thee, let the man of God whom you did send come again to
us, and teach us what we shall do to the child that shall be born.
\v 9 And God listened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field: but
Manoah her husband was not with her.
\v 10 And the woman made haste, and ran, and told her husband, and said to him, Behold, the man has appeared to me, that
came to me the other day.
\v 11 And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said to him, Are you the man that spoke to the
woman? And he said, I am.
\v 12 And Manoah said, Now let your words come to pass: what shall be the ordering of the child, and
how shall we do to him?
\v 13 And the angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, Of all that I said to the woman let her beware.
\v 14 She may not eat of anything that comes of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean
thing; all that I commanded her let her observe.
\p
\v 15 And Manoah said to the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us detain thee, that we may make ready a kid for thee.
\v 16 And the angel of Jehovah said to Manoah, Though you detain me, I will not eat of your bread; and if you will make
ready a burnt-offering, you must offer it to Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
\v 17 And Manoah said to the angel of Jehovah, What is your name, that, when your words come to pass, we may do you honor?
\v 18 And the angel of Jehovah said to him, Wherefore asked you after my name, seeing it is wonderful?
\v 19 So Manoah took the kid with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock to Jehovah: and
the angel did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife looked on.
\v 20 For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the
flame of the altar: and Manoah and his wife looked on; and they fell on their faces to the ground.
\p
\v 21 But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear to Manoah or to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of Jehovah.
\v 22 And Manoah said to his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
\v 23 But his wife said to him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering and a
meal-offering at our hand, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would at this time have told such things as
these.
\v 24 And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
\v 25 And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.