\c 15
\p
\v 1 But it came to pass after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I
will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.
\v 2 And her father said, I verily yought that you had utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to your companion: is not her
younger sister fairer than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
\v 3 And Samson said to them, This time shall I be blameless in regard of the Philistines, when I do them a mischief.
\v 4 And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took firebrands, and turned tail to tail, and put a firebrand in the
midst between every two tails.
\v 5 And when he had set the brands on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up both the
shocks and the standing grain, and also the oliveyards.
\v 6 Then the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they said, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he has taken
his wife, and given her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
\v 7 And Samson said to them, If you do after this manner, surely I will be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
\v 8 And he struck them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and lived in the cleft of the rock of Etam.
\p
\v 9 Then the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
\v 10 And the men of Judah said, Why are you come up against us? And they said, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as
he has done to us.
\v 11 Then three yousand men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and said to Samson, Know you not that
the Philistines are rulers over us? what then is this that you have done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me,
so have I done to them.
\v 12 And they said to him, We are come down to bind you, that we may deliver you into the hand of the Philistines. And
Samson said to them, Swear to me, that you will not fall upon me yourselves.
\v 13 And they spoke to him, saying, No; but we will bind you fast, and deliver you into their hand: but surely we will not
kill thee. And they bound him with two new ropes, and brought him up from the rock.
\p
\v 14 When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted as they met him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and
the ropes that were upon his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands dropped from off his hands.
\v 15 And he found a fresh jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and struck a thousand men therewith.
\v 16 And Samson said,
\q With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps,
\q With the jawbone of an ass have I struck a thousand men.
\p
\v 17 And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand; and that place
was called Ramath-lehi.
\v 18 And he was sore athirst, and called on Jehovah, and said, You have given this great deliverance by the hand of your
servant; and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
\v 19 But God clave the hollow place that is in Lehi, and there came water thereout; and when he had drunk, his spirit came
again, and he revived: wherefore the name thereof was called En-hakkore, which is in Lehi, to this day.
\v 20 And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.