\c 16
\p
\v 1 And Samson went to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in to her.
\v 2 And it was told the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they compassed him in, and laid wait for him
all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying,
Let be till morning light, then we will kill him.
\v 3 And Samson lay till midnight, and arose at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two
posts, and plucked them up, bar and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that
is before Hebron.
\p
\v 4 And it came to pass afterward, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
\v 5 And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Entice him, and see wherein his great strength
lieth, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him: and we will give you every one of us
eleven hundred pieces of silver.
\v 6 And Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein your great strength lieth, and wherewith you might be bound
to afflict thee.
\v 7 And Samson said to her, If they bind me with seven green withes that were never dried, then shall I become weak, and be
as another man.
\v 8 Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green withes which had not been dried, and she bound him with
them.
\v 9 Now she had liers-in-wait living in the inner chamber. And she said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And
he brake the withes, as a string of tow is broken when it touches the fire. So his strength was not known.
\p
\v 10 And Delilah said to Samson, Behold, you have mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith you
might be bound.
\v 11 And he said to her, If they only bind me with new ropes wherewith no work has been done, then shall I become weak, and
be as another man.
\v 12 So Delilah took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And the
liers-in-wait were living in the inner chamber. And he brake them off his arms like a thread.
\p
\v 13 And Delilah said to Samson, Hitherto you have mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith you might be bound.
And he said to her, If you weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.
\v 14 And she fastened it with the pin, and said to him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And he awaked out of his
sleep, and plucked away the pin of the beam, and the web.
\p
\v 15 And she said to him, How can you say, I love thee, when your heart is not with me? you have mocked me these three
times, and have not told me wherein your great strength lieth.
\v 16 And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, that his soul was vexed to death.
\v 17 And he told her all his heart, and said to her, There has not come a razor upon my head; for I have been a Nazirite
to God from my mother’s womb: if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any
other man.
\p
\v 18 And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying,
Come up this once, for he has told me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money
in their hand.
\v 19 And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the seven locks of his head; and she
began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
\v 20 And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other
times, and shake myself free. But he knew not that Jehovah was departed from him.
\v 21 And the Philistines laid hold on him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters
of brass; and he did grind in the prison-house.
\v 22 Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
\p
\v 23 And the lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice;
for they said, Our god has delivered Samson our enemy into our hand.
\v 24 And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god has delivered into our hand our enemy, and
the destroyer of our country, who has slain many of us.
\v 25 And it came to pass, when their hearts were merry, that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they
called for Samson out of the prison-house; and he made sport before them. And they set him between the pillars:
\v 26 and Samson said to the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house
resteth, that I may lean upon them.
\v 27 Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof
about three thousand men and women, that [*]saw while Samson made sport.
\p
\v 28 And Samson called to Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only
this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.
\v 29 And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house rested, and leaned upon them, the one with his right
hand, and the other with his left.
\v 30 And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the
lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he killed at his death were more than they that he killed in his
life.
\v 31 Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between
Zorah and Eshtaol in the burying-place of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.