\c 17
\p
\v 1 And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
\v 2 And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from thee, about which you
did utter a curse, and did also speak it in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said,
Blessed be my son of Jehovah.
\v 3 And he restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I verily dedicate the
silver to Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it to
thee.
\v 4 And when he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred
pieces of silver, and gave them to the founder, who made thereof a graven image and a molten image: and it was in the
house of Micah.
\v 5 And the man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his
priest.
\v 6 In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
\p
\v 7 And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem-judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and he sojourned there.
\v 8 And the man departed out of the city, out of Beth-lehem-judah, to sojourn where he could find
a place, and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
\v 9 And Micah said to him, Whence come thou? And he said to him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah, and I go to sojourn
where I may find a place.
\v 10 And Micah said to him, Dwell with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten
pieces of silver by the year, and a suit of apparel, and your victuals. So the Levite went in.
\v 11 And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
\v 12 And Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
\v 13 Then said Micah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite to my priest.