\c 18
\p
\v 1 In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell
in; for to that day their inheritance had not fallen to them among the tribes of Israel.
\v 2 And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol,
to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said to them, Go, search the land. And they came to the hill-country of
Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
\v 3 When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite; and they turned aside thither, and
said to him, Who brought you hither? and what do you in this place? and what have you here?
\v 4 And he said to them, Thus and thus has Micah dealt with me, and he has hired me, and I am become his priest.
\v 5 And they said to him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be
prosperous.
\v 6 And the priest said to them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way wherein you go.
\p
\v 7 Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they lived in security, after the
manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; for there was none in the land, possessing authority, that might put
them to shame in anything, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no dealings with any man.
\v 8 And they came to their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren said to them, What
say ye?
\v 9 And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and are you
still? be not slothful to go and to enter in to possess the land.
\v 10 When you go, you shall come to a people secure, and the land is large; for God has given it into your hand, a place
where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth.
\p
\v 11 And there set forth from thence of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men wrapped with
weapons of war.
\v 12 And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, in Judah: wherefore they called that place Mahaneh-dan, to this day;
behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
\v 13 And they passed thence to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
\p
\v 14 Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, and said to their brethren, Do you know that there
is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what you have to do.
\v 15 And they turned aside thither, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, even to the house of Micah, and asked
him of his welfare.
\v 16 And the six hundred men wrapped with their weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the
gate.
\v 17 And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod,
and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men wrapped with
weapons of war.
\v 18 And when these went into Micah’s house, and fetched the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image,
the priest said to them, What do ye?
\v 19 And they said to him, Hold your peace, lay your hand upon your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest:
is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
\v 20 And the priest’s heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of
the people.
\p
\v 21 So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the cattle and the goods before them.
\v 22 When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near to Micah’s house were gathered
together, and overtook the children of Dan.
\v 23 And they cried to the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said to Micah, What aileth thee, that you
come with such a company?
\v 24 And he said, you have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and are gone away, and what have I more? and how
then say you to me, What aileth thee?
\v 25 And the children of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall upon you, and you
lose your life, with the lives of your household.
\v 26 And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back
to his house.
\p
\v 27 And they took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to Laish, to a people quiet and secure,
and struck them with the edge of the sword; and they burnt the city with fire.
\v 28 And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no dealings with any man; and it was in the
valley that lies by Beth-rehob. And they built the city, and lived therein.
\v 29 And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: howbeit the name
of the city was Laish at the first.
\v 30 And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, he
and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land.
\v 31 So they set them up Micah’s graven image which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.