\c 20
\p
\v 1 Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with
the land of Gilead, to Jehovah at Mizpah.
\v 2 And the chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of
God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.
\v 3 (Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said,
Tell us, how was this wickedness brought to pass?
\v 4 And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was murdered, answered and said, I came into Gibeah that belongs to
Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
\v 5 And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house round about me by night; me they thought to have slain, and my
concubine they forced, and she is dead.
\v 6 And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for
they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
\v 7 Behold, you children of Israel, all of you, give here your advice and counsel.
\p
\v 8 And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn to his
house.
\v 9 But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: we will go up
against it by lot;
\v 10 and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand
out of ten thousand, to fetch food for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all
the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
\v 11 So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
\p
\v 12 And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is come to pass
among you?
\v 13 Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows, that are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil
from Israel. But Benjamin would not listen to the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
\v 14 And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle against the
children of Israel.
\v 15 And the children of Benjamin were numbered on that day out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword,
besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
\v 16 Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men lefthanded; every one could sling stones at a hair-breadth, and
not miss.
\p
\v 17 And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of
war.
\v 18 And the children of Israel arose, and went up to Beth-el, and asked counsel of God; and they said, Who shall go up for us
first to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah
shall go up first.
\p
\v 19 And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
\v 20 And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them at
Gibeah.
\v 21 And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down to the ground of the Israelites on that day
twenty and two thousand men.
\v 22 And the people, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set the battle again in array in the place where they set
themselves in array the first day.
\v 23 And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even; and they asked of Jehovah, saying, Shall I again
draw near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
\p
\v 24 And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
\v 25 And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of
Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
\v 26 Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before
Jehovah, and fasted that day until even; and they offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
\v 27 And the children of Israel asked of Jehovah (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
\v 28 and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days), saying, Shall I yet again go out to
battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver him
into your hand.
\p
\v 29 And Israel set liers-in-wait against Gibeah round about.
\v 30 And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against
Gibeah, as at other times.
\v 31 And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to strike and
kill of the people, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goes up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, in the
field, about thirty men of Israel.
\v 32 And the children of Benjamin said, They are struck down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let
us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways.
\v 33 And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal-tamar: and the liers-in-wait of
Israel brake forth out of their place, even out of Maareh-geba.
\v 34 And there came over against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore; but they knew not
that evil was close upon them.
\v 35 And Jehovah struck Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Benjamin that day twenty and five
thousand and a hundred men: all these drew the sword.
\p
\v 36 So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; for the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they
trusted to the liers-in-wait whom they had set against Gibeah.
\v 37 And the liers-in-wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the liers-in-wait drew themselves along, and struck all the city
with the edge of the sword.
\v 38 Now the appointed sign between the men of Israel and the liers-in-wait was, that they should make a great cloud of smoke
rise up out of the city.
\v 39 And the men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to strike and kill of the men of Israel about thirty
persons; for they said, Surely they are struck down before us, as in the first battle.
\v 40 But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them; and,
behold, the whole of the city went up in smoke to heaven.
\v 41 And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed; for they saw that evil was come upon them.
\v 42 Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard
after them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst thereof.
\v 43 They inclosed the Benjamites round about, and chased them,
and trod them down at their resting-place, as far as over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
\v 44 And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these
were men of valor.
\v 45 And they turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways five
thousand men, and followed hard after them to Gidom, and struck of them two thousand men.
\v 46 So that all who fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these
were men of valor.
\v 47 But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and abode in the rock of Rimmon four
months.
\v 48 And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and struck them with the edge of the sword, both the
entire city, and the cattle, and all that they found: moreover all the cities which they found they set on fire.