\c 1
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah that came to Micah the Morashtite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he
saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.
\p
\v 2 Hear, you peoples, all of you; hearken, O earth, and all that therein is: and let the Lord Jehovah be witness against you,
the Lord from his holy temple.
\v 3 For, behold, Jehovah comes forth out of his place, and will come down, and tread upon the high places of the earth.
\v 4 And the mountains shall be melted under him, and the valleys shall be cleft, as wax before the fire, as waters that are
poured down a steep place.
\v 5 For the transgression of Jacob is all this, and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob?
is it not Samaria? and what are the high places of Judah? are they not Jerusalem?
\v 6 Therefore I will make Samaria as a heap of the field, and
as places for planting vineyards; and I will pour down the stones thereof into the valley, and I will uncover the
foundations thereof.
\v 7 And all her graven images shall be beaten to pieces, and all her hires shall be burned with fire, and all her idols will I
lay desolate; for of the hire of a harlot has she gathered them, and to the hire of a harlot shall they return.
\p
\v 8 For this will I lament and wail; I will go stripped and naked; I will make a wailing like the jackals, and a lamentation
like the ostriches.
\v 9 For her wounds are incurable; for it is come even to Judah; it reaches to the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.
\v 10 Tell it not in Gath, weep not at all: at Beth-le-aphrah have I rolled myself in the dust.
\v 11 Pass away, O inhabitant of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame: the inhabitant of Zaanan is not come forth; the wailing of
Beth-ezel shall take from you the stay thereof.
\v 12 For the inhabitant of Maroth waits anxiously for good, because evil is come down from Jehovah to the gate of
Jerusalem.
\v 13 Bind the chariot to the swift steed, O inhabitant of Lachish: she was the beginning of sin to the daughter of Zion; for
the transgressions of Israel were found in thee.
\v 14 Therefore shall you give a parting gift to Moresheth-gath: the houses of Achzib shall be a deceitful thing to the
kings of Israel.
\v 15 I will yet bring to thee, O inhabitant of Mareshah, him that shall possess thee: the glory of Israel shall come even
to Adullam.
\v 16 Make you bald, and cut off your hair for the children of your delight: enlarge your baldness as the eagle; for they are
gone into captivity from thee.