\c 2
\p
\v 1 Woe to them that devise iniquity and work evil upon their beds! when the morning is light, they practise it, because it is
in the power of their hand.
\v 2 And they covet fields, and seize them; and houses, and take them away: and they oppress a man and his house, even a man
and his heritage.
\v 3 Therefore thus says Jehovah: Behold, against this family do I devise an evil, from which you shall not remove your necks,
neither shall you walk haughtily; for it is an evil time.
\v 4 In that day shall they take up a parable against you, and lament with a doleful lamentation,
and say, We are utterly ruined: he changes the portion of my people: how does he remove
it from me! to the rebellious he divideth our fields.
\v 5 Therefore you shall have none that shall cast the line by lot in the assembly of Jehovah.
\p
\v 6 Prophesy you not, thus they prophesy. They shall not prophesy to these: reproaches shall not depart.
\v 7 Shall it be said, O house of Jacob, Is the Spirit of Jehovah straitened? are these his doings? Do not my words do good to
him that walks uprightly?
\v 8 But of late my people is risen up as an enemy: you strip the robe from off the garment from them that pass by securely
as men averse from war.
\v 9 The women of my people you cast out from their pleasant houses; from their young children you take away my glory for ever.
\v 10 Arise ye, and depart; for this is not your resting-place; because of uncleanness that destroyeth, even with a grievous
destruction.
\v 11 If a man walking in a spirit of falsehood do lie, saying, I will prophesy to you of wine and of strong
drink; he shall even be the prophet of this people.
\p
\v 12 I will surely assemble, O Jacob, all of thee; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the
sheep of Bozrah, as a flock in the midst of their pasture; they shall make great noise by reason of
the multitude of men.
\v 13 The breaker is gone up before them: they have broken forth and passed on to the gate, and are gone out thereat; and their
king is passed on before them, and Jehovah at the head of them.