\c 4
\p
\v 1 But in the latter days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of Jehovah’s house shall be established on the top of the
mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and peoples shall flow to it.
\v 2 And many nations shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah, and to the house of the God of
Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of
Jehovah from Jerusalem;
\v 3 and he will judge between many peoples, and will decide concerning strong nations afar off: and they shall beat their
swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they
learn war any more.
\v 4 But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig-tree; and none shall make them afraid: for the mouth of
Jehovah of hosts has spoken it.
\v 5 For all the peoples walk every one in the name of his god; and we will walk in the name of Jehovah our God for ever and
ever.
\p
\v 6 In that day, says Jehovah, will I assemble that which is lame, and I will gather that which is driven away, and that
which I have afflicted;
\v 7 and I will make that which was lame a remnant, and that which was cast far off a strong nation: and Jehovah will reign
over them in mount Zion from henceforth even for ever.
\v 8 And thou, O tower of the flock, the hill of the daughter of Zion, to you shall it come, yea, the former dominion shall
come, the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem.
\p
\v 9 Now why do you cry out aloud? Is there no king in you, is your counsellor perished, that pangs have taken hold of you
as of a woman in travail?
\v 10 Be in pain, and labor to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in travail; for now shall you go forth out of the
city, and shall dwell in the field, and shall come even to Babylon: there shall you be rescued; there will Jehovah redeem
you from the hand of your enemies.
\v 11 And now many nations are assembled against thee, that say, Let her be defiled, and let our eye see
our desire upon Zion.
\v 12 But they know not the thoughts of Jehovah, neither understand they his counsel; for he has gathered them as the sheaves
to the threshing-floor.
\v 13 Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion; for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs brass; and you shall beat
in pieces many peoples: and I will devote their gain to Jehovah, and their substance to the Lord of the whole earth.