\c 5
\nb
\v 1 Now shall you gather yourself in troops, O daughter of troops: he has laid siege against us; they shall strike the judge
of Israel with a rod upon the cheek.
\p
\v 2 But thou, Beth-lehem Ephrathah, which are little to be among the thousands of Judah, out of you shall one come forth to
me that is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth are from of old, from everlasting.
\v 3 Therefore will he give them up, until the time that she who suffers has brought forth: then the residue of his
brethren shall return to the children of Israel.
\v 4 And he shall stand, and shall feed his flock in the strength of Jehovah, in the majesty of the name of Jehovah
his God: and they shall abide; for now shall he be great to the ends of the earth.
\v 5 And this man shall be our peace. When the Assyrian shall come into our land, and when he shall tread
in our palaces, then shall we raise against him seven shepherds, and eight principal men.
\v 6 And they shall waste the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in the entrances thereof: and he shall
deliver us from the Assyrian, when he comes into our land, and when he treadeth within our border.
\v 7 And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples as dew from Jehovah, as showers upon the grass, that wait
not for man, nor wait for the sons of men.
\v 8 And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations, in the midst of many peoples, as a lion among the beasts of the
forest, as a young lion among the flocks of sheep; who, if he go through, treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and there is
none to deliver.
\v 9 Let your hand be lifted up above your adversaries, and let all your enemies be cut off.
\p
\v 10 And it shall come to pass in that day, says Jehovah, that I will cut off your horses out of the midst of thee, and will
destroy your chariots:
\v 11 and I will cut off the cities of your land, and will throw down all your strongholds.
\v 12 And I will cut off witchcrafts out of your hand; and you shall have no
more soothsayers:
\v 13 and I will cut off your graven images and your pillars out of the midst of thee; and you shall no more worship the work of
your hands;
\v 14 and I will pluck up your Asherim out of the midst of thee; and I will destroy your cities.
\v 15 And I will execute vengeance in anger and wrath upon the nations which listened not.