\c 6
\p
\v 1 Hear you now what Jehovah saith: Arise, contend you before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.
\v 2 Hear, O you mountains, Jehovah’s controversy, and you enduring foundations of the earth; for Jehovah has a controversy with
his people, and he will contend with Israel.
\v 3 O my people, what have I done to thee? and wherein have I wearied thee? testify against me.
\v 4 For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage; and I sent before you
Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
\v 5 O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him;
remember from Shittim to Gilgal, that you may know the righteous acts of Jehovah.
\p
\v 6 Wherewith shall I come before Jehovah, and bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt-offerings,
with calves a year old?
\v 7 will Jehovah be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my
firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?
\v 8 He has showed thee, O man, what is good; and what does Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love kindness,
and to walk humbly with your God?
\p
\v 9 The voice of Jehovah cries to the city, and the man of
wisdom will see your name: hear you the rod, and who has appointed it.
\v 10 Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a scant measure that is abominable?
\v 11 Shall I be pure with wicked balances, and with a bag of deceitful weights?
\v 12 For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue is
deceitful in their mouth.
\v 13 Therefore I also have struck you with a grievous wound; I have made you desolate because of your sins.
\v 14 You shall eat, but not be satisfied; and your humiliation shall be in the midst of thee: and you shall put away, but
shall not save; and that which you save will I give up to the sword.
\v 15 You shall sow, but shall not reap; you shall tread the olives, but shall not anoint you with oil; and the vintage, but
shall not drink the wine.
\v 16 For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and you walk in their counsels; that I may make
you a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof a hissing: and you shall bear the reproach of my people.