\c 7
\p
\v 1 Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the summer fruits, as the grape gleanings of the vintage: there is no
cluster to eat; my soul desires the first-ripe fig.
\v 2 The godly man is perished out of the earth, and there is none upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood; they hunt
every man his brother with a net.
\v 3 Their hands are upon that which is evil to do it diligently; the prince asketh, and the judge
is ready for a reward; and the great man, he utters the evil desire of his soul: thus they weave it together.
\v 4 The best of them is as a brier; the most upright is worse
than a thorn hedge: the day of your watchmen, even your visitation, is come; now shall be their perplexity.
\v 5 Trust you not in a neighbor; put you not confidence in a friend; keep the doors of your mouth from her that lies in your
bosom.
\v 6 For the son dishonoreth the father, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her
mother-in-law; a man’s enemies are the men of his own house.
\p
\v 7 But as for me, I will look to Jehovah; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will hear me.
\v 8 Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, Jehovah will be a light to me.
\v 9 I will bear the indignation of Jehovah, because I have sinned against him, until he plead my cause, and execute judgment
for me: he will bring me forth to the light, and I shall behold his righteousness.
\v 10 Then mine enemy shall see it, and shame shall cover her who said to me, Where is Jehovah your God? Mine eyes shall see
my desire upon her; now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets.
\v 11 A day for building your walls! in that day shall the decree be far removed.
\v 12 In that day shall they come to you from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt even to the River, and from
sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain.
\v 13 Yet shall the land be desolate because of them that dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.
\p
\v 14 Feed your people with your rod, the flock of your heritage, which dwell solitarily, in the forest in the midst of Carmel:
let them feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.
\v 15 As in the days of your coming forth out of the land of Egypt will I show to them marvelous things.
\v 16 The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might; they shall lay their hand upon their mouth; their ears shall be
deaf.
\v 17 They shall lick the dust like a serpent; like crawling things of the earth they shall come trembling out of their close
places; they shall come with fear to Jehovah our God, and shall be afraid because of thee.
\p
\v 18 Who is a God like to thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passes over the transgression of the remnant of his heritage?
he retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delights in lovingkindness.
\v 19 He will again have compassion upon us; he will tread our iniquities under foot; and you will cast all their sins into
the depths of the sea.
\v 20 You will perform the truth to Jacob, and the lovingkindness to Abraham, which you have sworn to our fathers
from the days of old.