\c 5
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Command the children of Israel, that they put out of the camp every leper, and every one that has an issue, and whoever
is unclean by the dead:
\v 3 both male and female shall you put out, without the camp shall you put them; that they defile not their camp, in the midst
whereof I dwell.
\v 4 And the children of Israel did so, and put them out without the camp; as Jehovah spoke to Moses, so did the children of
Israel.
\p
\v 5 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 6 Speak to the children of Israel, When a man or woman shall commit any sin that men commit, so as to trespass against
Jehovah, and that soul shall be guilty;
\v 7 then he shall confess his sin which he has done: and he shall make restitution for his guilt in full, and add to it the
fifth part thereof, and give it to him in respect of whom he has been guilty.
\v 8 But if the man have no kinsman to whom restitution may be made for the guilt, the restitution for guilt which is made to
Jehovah shall be the priest’s; besides the ram of the atonement, whereby atonement shall be made for him.
\v 9 And every heave-offering of all the holy things of the children of Israel, which they present to the priest, shall be
his.
\v 10 And every man’s hallowed things shall be his: whatever any man gives the priest, it shall be his.
\p
\v 11 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 12 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, If any man’s wife go aside, and commit a trespass against him,
\v 13 and a man lie with her carnally, and it be hid from the eyes of her husband, and be kept close, and she be defiled, and
there be no witness against her, and she be not taken in the act;
\v 14 and the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be defiled: or if the spirit of jealousy
come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be not defiled:
\v 15 then shall the man bring his wife to the priest, and shall bring her oblation for her, the tenth part of an ephah of
barley meal; he shall pour no oil upon it, nor put frankincense thereon; for it is a meal-offering of jealousy, a meal-offering
of memorial, bringing iniquity to remembrance.
\p
\v 16 And the priest shall bring her near, and set her before Jehovah:
\v 17 and the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle the
priest shall take, and put it into the water.
\v 18 And the priest shall set the woman before Jehovah, and let the hair of the woman’s head go loose, and put the
meal-offering of memorial in her hands, which is the meal-offering of jealousy: and the priest shall have in his hand the water
of bitterness that causes the curse.
\v 19 And the priest shall cause her to swear, and shall say to the woman, If no man have lain with thee, and if you have
not gone aside to uncleanness, being under your husband, be you free from this water of bitterness that causes the curse.
\v 20 But if you have gone aside, being under your husband, and if you be defiled, and some man have lain with you besides
your husband:
\v 21 then the priest shall cause the woman to swear with the oath of cursing, and the priest shall say to the woman, Jehovah
make you a curse and an oath among your people, when Jehovah does make your thigh to fall away, and your body to swell;
\v 22 and this water that causes the curse shall go into your bowels, and make your body to swell, and your thigh to fall away.
And the woman shall say, Amen, Amen.
\p
\v 23 And the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall blot them out into the water of bitterness:
\v 24 and he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that causes the curse; and the water that causes the curse
shall enter into her and become bitter.
\v 25 And the priest shall take the meal-offering of jealousy out of the woman’s hand, and shall wave the meal-offering before
Jehovah, and bring it to the altar:
\v 26 and the priest shall take a handful of the meal-offering, as the memorial thereof, and burn it upon the altar, and
afterward shall make the woman drink the water.
\v 27 And when he has made her drink the water, then it shall come to pass, if she be defiled, and have committed a trespass
against her husband, that the water that causes the curse shall enter into her
and become bitter, and her body shall swell, and her thigh shall fall away: and the woman shall be a curse among her
people.
\v 28 And if the woman be not defiled, but be clean; then she shall be free, and shall conceive seed.
\p
\v 29 This is the law of jealousy, when a wife, being under her husband, goes aside, and is defiled;
\v 30 or when the spirit of jealousy comes upon a man, and he is jealous of his wife; then shall he set the woman before
Jehovah, and the priest shall execute upon her all this law.
\v 31 And the man shall be free from iniquity, and that woman shall bear her iniquity.