\c 8
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to Aaron, and say to him, When you lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light in front of the
candlestick.
\v 3 And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps thereof so as to give light
in front of the candlestick, as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\v 4 And this was the work of the candlestick, beaten work of gold; to the base thereof,
and to the flowers thereof, it was beaten work: according to the pattern which Jehovah had showed Moses, so he
made the candlestick.
\p
\v 5 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 6 Take the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them.
\v 7 And thus shall you do to them, to cleanse them: sprinkle the water of expiation upon them, and let them cause a razor
to pass over all their flesh, and let them wash their clothes, and cleanse themselves.
\v 8 Then let them take a young bullock, and its meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil; and another young bullock shall
you take for a sin-offering.
\v 9 And you shall present the Levites before the tent of meeting: and you shall assemble the whole congregation of the
children of Israel:
\v 10 and you shall present the Levites before Jehovah. And the children of Israel shall lay their hands upon the Levites:
\v 11 and Aaron shall offer the Levites before Jehovah for a wave-offering, on the behalf of the children of Israel, that it
may be theirs to do the service of Jehovah.
\v 12 And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bullocks: and offer you the one for a sin-offering, and the
other for a burnt-offering, to Jehovah, to make atonement for the Levites.
\v 13 And you shall set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and offer them for a wave-offering to Jehovah.
\p
\v 14 Thus shall you separate the Levites from among the children of Israel; and the Levites shall be mine.
\v 15 And after that shall the Levites go in to do the service of the tent of meeting: and you shall cleanse them, and offer
them for a wave-offering.
\v 16 For they are wholly given to me from among the children of Israel; instead of all that opens the womb, even the
firstborn of all the children of Israel, have I taken them to me.
\v 17 For all the firstborn among the children of Israel are mine, both man and beast: on the day that I struck all the
firstborn in the land of Egypt I sanctified them for myself.
\v 18 And I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel.
\v 19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the children of Israel, to do the service of
the children of Israel in the tent of meeting, and to make atonement for the children of Israel; that there be no plague among
the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come near to the sanctuary.
\p
\v 20 Thus did Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children of Israel, to the Levites: according to all that
Jehovah commanded Moses touching the Levites, so did the children of Israel to them.
\v 21 And the Levites purified themselves from sin, and they washed their clothes: and Aaron offered them for a wave-offering
before Jehovah; and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them.
\v 22 And after that went the Levites in to do their service in the tent of meeting before Aaron, and before his sons: as
Jehovah had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they to them.
\p
\v 23 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 24 This is that which belongs to the Levites: from twenty and five years old and upward they shall go in to wait upon
the service in the work of the tent of meeting:
\v 25 and from the age of fifty years they shall cease waiting upon the work, and shall serve no more,
\v 26 but shall minister with their brethren in the tent of meeting, to keep the charge, and shall do no service. Thus shall
you do to the Levites touching their charges.