\c 9
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they were come out of
the land of Egypt, saying,
\v 2 Moreover let the children of Israel keep the passover in its appointed season.
\v 3 In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, you shall keep it in its appointed season: according to all the statutes of
it, and according to all the ordinances thereof, shall you keep it.
\v 4 And Moses spoke to the children of Israel, that they should keep the passover.
\v 5 And they kept the passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at even, in the wilderness of
Sinai: according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel.
\v 6 And there were certain men, who were unclean by reason of the dead body of a man, so that they could not keep the passover
on that day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day:
\v 7 and those men said to him, We are unclean by reason of the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept back, that we may
not offer the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season among the children of Israel?
\v 8 And Moses said to them, Stay ye, that I may hear what Jehovah will command concerning you.
\p
\v 9 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 10 Speak to the children of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your generations shall be unclean by reason of a dead
body, or be on a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the passover to Jehovah.
\v 11 In the second month on the fourteenth day at even they shall keep it; they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter
herbs:
\v 12 they shall leave none of it to the morning, nor break a bone thereof: according to all the statute of the passover they
shall keep it.
\v 13 But the man that is clean, and is not on a journey, and forbears to keep the passover, that soul shall be cut off from
his people; because he offered not the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season, that man shall bear his sin.
\v 14 And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the passover to Jehovah; according to the statute of the
passover, and according to the ordinance thereof, so shall he do: you shall have one statute, both for the sojourner, and for
him that is born in the land.
\p
\v 15 And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the tent of the testimony: and at
even it was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until morning.
\v 16 So it was alway: the cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night.
\v 17 And whenever the cloud was taken up from over the Tent, then after that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the
place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel encamped.
\v 18 At the commandment of Jehovah the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of Jehovah they encamped: as long
as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they remained encamped.
\v 19 And when the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of Jehovah, and
journeyed not.
\v 20 And sometimes the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle; then according to the commandment of Jehovah they remained
encamped, and according to the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed.
\v 21 And sometimes the cloud was from evening until morning; and when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they journeyed:
or if it continued by day and by night, when the cloud was taken up, they journeyed.
\v 22 Whether it were two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, living thereon, the
children of Israel remained encamped, and journeyed not; but when it was taken up, they journeyed.
\v 23 At the commandment of Jehovah they encamped, and at the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed: they kept the charge of
Jehovah, at the commandment of Jehovah by Moses.