\c 10
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Make you two trumpets of silver; of beaten work shall you make them: and you shall use them for the calling of the
congregation, and for the journeying of the camps.
\v 3 And when they shall blow them, all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the door of the tent of meeting.
\v 4 And if they blow but one, then the princes, the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves to thee.
\v 5 And when you blow an alarm, the camps that lie on the east side shall take their journey.
\v 6 And when you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that lie on the south side shall take their journey: they shall blow
an alarm for their journeys.
\v 7 But when the assembly is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
\v 8 And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets; and they shall be to you for a statute for ever throughout
your generations.
\v 9 And when you go to war in your land against the adversary that oppresseth you, then you shall sound an alarm with the
trumpets; and you shall be remembered before Jehovah your God, and you shall be saved from your enemies.
\v 10 Also in the day of your gladness, and in your set feasts, and in the beginnings of your months, you shall blow the
trumpets over your burnt-offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace-offerings; and they shall be to you for a memorial
before your God: I am Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 11 And it came to pass in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the cloud was taken
up from over the tabernacle of the testimony.
\v 12 And the children of Israel set forward according to their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud abode in
the wilderness of Paran.
\v 13 And they first took their journey according to the commandment of Jehovah by Moses.
\v 14 And in the first place the standard of the camp of the children of Judah set forward according to their hosts:
and over his host was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
\v 15 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar.
\v 16 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
\v 17 And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, who bare the tabernacle, set forward.
\v 18 And the standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according to their hosts: and over his host was Elizur the son of
Shedeur.
\v 19 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
\v 20 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
\p
\v 21 And the Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and
the others did set up the tabernacle against their coming.
\v 22 And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their hosts: and over his host was
Elishama the son of Ammihud.
\v 23 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
\v 24 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
\p
\v 25 And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan, which was the rearward of all the camps, set forward according to
their hosts: and over his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
\v 26 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ochran.
\v 27 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
\v 28 Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their hosts; and they set forward.
\p
\v 29 And Moses said to Hobab, the son of Reuel the Midianite, Moses’ father-in-law, We are journeying to the place of
which Jehovah said, I will give it you: come you with us, and we will do you good; for Jehovah has spoken good concerning
Israel.
\v 30 And he said to him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine own land, and to my kindred.
\v 31 And he said, Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as you know how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and you shall
be to us instead of eyes.
\v 32 And it shall be, if you go with us, yea, it shall be, that what good soever Jehovah shall do to us, the same will we
do to thee.
\p
\v 33 And they set forward from the mount of Jehovah three days’ journey; and the ark of the covenant of Jehovah went before
them three days’ journey, to seek out a resting-place for them.
\v 34 And the cloud of Jehovah was over them by day, when they set forward from the camp.
\p
\v 35 And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up, O Jehovah, and let your enemies be scattered;
and let them that hate you flee before you.
\v 36 And when it rested, he said, Return, O Jehovah, to the ten thousands of the thousands of Israel.