\c 11
\p
\v 1 And the people were as murmurers, speaking evil in the ears of Jehovah: and when Jehovah heard it, his anger was
kindled; and the fire of Jehovah burnt among them, and devoured in the uttermost part of the camp.
\v 2 And the people cried to Moses; and Moses prayed to Jehovah, and the fire abated.
\v 3 And the name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of Jehovah burnt among them.
\p
\v 4 And the mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who
shall give us flesh to eat?
\v 5 We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt for nought; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions,
and the garlic:
\v 6 but now our soul is dried away; there is nothing at all save this manna to look upon.
\v 7 And the manna was like coriander seed, and the appearance thereof as the appearance of bdellium.
\v 8 The people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made
cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.
\v 9 And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it.
\v 10 And Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent: and the anger of Jehovah
was kindled greatly; and Moses was displeased.
\v 11 And Moses said to Jehovah, Wherefore have you dealt ill with your servant? and wherefore have I not found favor in your
sight, that you lay the burden of all this people upon me?
\v 12 Have I conceived all this people? have I brought them forth, that you should say to me, Carry them in your bosom, as
a nursing-father carries the sucking child, to the land which you swore to their fathers?
\v 13 Whence should I have flesh to give to all this people? for they weep to me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.
\v 14 I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me.
\v 15 And if you deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in your sight; and let me not see
my wretchedness.
\p
\v 16 And Jehovah said to Moses, Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know to be the elders of
the people, and officers over them; and bring them to the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with thee.
\v 17 And I will come down and talk with you there: and I will take of the Spirit which is upon you, and will put it upon
them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that you bear it not yourself alone.
\v 18 And say you to the people, Sanctify yourselves against to-morrow, and you shall eat flesh; for you have wept in the ears
of Jehovah, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Egypt: therefore Jehovah will give you flesh,
and you shall eat.
\v 19 You shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days,
\v 20 but a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome to you; because that you have rejected
Jehovah who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt?
\v 21 And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred yousand footmen; and you have said, I will give them
flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
\v 22 Shall flocks and herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for
them, to suffice them?
\v 23 And Jehovah said to Moses, Is Jehovah’s hand waxed short? now shall you see whether my word shall come to pass to
you or not.
\p
\v 24 And Moses went out, and told the people the words of Jehovah: and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people,
and set them round about the Tent.
\v 25 And Jehovah came down in the cloud, and spoke to him, and took of the Spirit that was upon him, and put it upon the
seventy elders: and it came to pass, that, when the Spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, but they did so no more.
\p
\v 26 But there remained two men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the Spirit
rested upon them; and they were of them that were written, but had not gone out to the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp.
\v 27 And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
\v 28 And Joshua the son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
\v 29 And Moses said to him, Are you jealous for my sake? would that all Jehovah’s people were prophets, that Jehovah would
put his Spirit upon them!
\v 30 And Moses got him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
\p
\v 31 And there went forth a wind from Jehovah, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day’s
journey on this side, and a day’s journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about two cubits above the face of the
earth.
\v 32 And the people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails: he that gathered
least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.
\v 33 While the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the anger of Jehovah was kindled against the people, and
Jehovah struck the people with a very great plague.
\v 34 And the name of that place was called Kibroth-hattaavah, because there they buried the people that lusted.
\v 35 From Kibroth-hattaavah the people journeyed to Hazeroth; and they abode at Hazeroth.