\c 15
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you are come into the land of your habitations, which I give
to you,
\v 3 and will make an offering by fire to Jehovah, a burnt-offering, or a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or as a
freewill-offering, or in your set feasts, to make a sweet savor to Jehovah, of the herd, or of the flock;
\v 4 then shall he that offers his oblation offer to Jehovah a meal-offering of a tenth part
of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of oil:
\v 5 and wine for the drink-offering, the fourth part of a hin, shall you prepare with the burnt-offering, or for the
sacrifice, for each lamb.
\v 6 Or for a ram, you shall prepare for a meal-offering two tenth parts
of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the third part of a hin of oil:
\v 7 and for the drink-offering you shall offer the third part of a hin of wine, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
\v 8 And when you preparest a bullock for a burnt-offering, or for a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or for peace-offerings
to Jehovah;
\v 9 then shall he offer with the bullock a meal-offering of three tenth parts
of an ephah of fine flour mingled with half a hin of oil:
\v 10 and you shall offer for the drink-offering half a hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to
Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 Thus shall it be done for each bullock, or for each ram, or for each of the he-lambs, or of the kids.
\v 12 According to the number that you shall prepare, so shall you do to every one according to their number.
\v 13 All that are home-born shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor
to Jehovah.
\v 14 And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whoever may be among you throughout your generations, and will offer an offering
made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah; as you do, so he shall do.
\v 15 For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth
with you, a statute for ever throughout your generations: as you are, so shall the sojourner be before Jehovah.
\v 16 One law and one ordinance shall be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you.
\p
\v 17 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 18 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you come into the land whither I bring you,
\v 19 then it shall be, that, when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall offer up a heave-offering to Jehovah.
\v 20 Of the first of your dough you shall offer up a cake for a heave-offering: as the heave-offering of the threshing-floor,
so shall you heave it.
\v 21 Of the first of your dough you shall give to Jehovah a heave-offering throughout your generations.
\p
\v 22 And when you shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which Jehovah has spoken to Moses,
\v 23 even all that Jehovah has commanded you by Moses, from the day that Jehovah gave commandment, and onward throughout your
generations;
\v 24 then it shall be, if it be done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall
offer one young bullock for a burnt-offering, for a sweet savor to Jehovah, with the meal-offering thereof, and the
drink-offering thereof, according to the ordinance, and one he-goat for a sin-offering.
\v 25 And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for
it was an error, and they have brought their oblation, an offering made by fire to Jehovah, and their sin-offering before
Jehovah, for their error:
\v 26 and all the congregation of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; for in
respect of all the people it was done unwittingly.
\p
\v 27 And if one person sin unwittingly, then he shall offer a she-goat a year old for a sin-offering.
\v 28 And the priest shall make atonement for the soul that erreth, when he sins unwittingly, before Jehovah, to make
atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven.
\v 29 You shall have one law for him that does anything unwittingly, for him that is home-born among the children of Israel, and
for the stranger that sojourneth among them.
\v 30 But the soul that does anything with a high hand, whether he be home-born or a sojourner, the same blasphemeth Jehovah; and
that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
\v 31 Because he has despised the word of Jehovah, and has broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his
iniquity shall be upon him.
\p
\v 32 And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks upon the sabbath day.
\v 33 And they that found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation.
\v 34 And they put him in ward, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.
\v 35 And Jehovah said to Moses, The man shall surely be put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones
without the camp.
\v 36 And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him to death with stones; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
\p
\v 37 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 38 Speak to the children of Israel, and command them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout
their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of each border a cord of blue:
\v 39 and it shall be to you for a fringe, that you may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of Jehovah, and do
them; and that you follow not after your own heart and your own eyous, after which you use to play the harlot;
\v 40 that you may remember and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God.
\v 41 I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am Jehovah your God.