\c 18
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Aaron, You and your sons and your fathers’ house with you shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary;
and you and your sons with you shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
\v 2 And your brethren also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, bring you near with thee, that they may be joined to
you, and minister to you: but you and your sons with you shall be before the tent of the testimony.
\v 3 And they shall keep your charge, and the charge of all the Tent: only they shall not come near to the vessels of the
sanctuary and to the altar, that they die not, neither they, nor ye.
\v 4 And they shall be joined to thee, and keep the charge of the tent of meeting, for all the service of the Tent: and a
stranger shall not come near to you.
\v 5 And you shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar; that there be wrath no more upon the children
of Israel.
\v 6 And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from among the children of Israel: to you they are a gift, given
to Jehovah, to do the service of the tent of meeting.
\v 7 And you and your sons with you shall keep your priesthood for everything of the altar, and for that within the veil; and
you shall serve: I give you the priesthood as a service of gift: and the stranger that comes near shall be put to death.
\p
\v 8 And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, And I, behold, I have given you the charge of my heave-offerings, even all the hallowed
things of the children of Israel; to you have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to your sons, as a portion for
ever.
\v 9 This shall be your of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every oblation of theirs, even every
meal-offering of theirs, and every sin-offering of theirs, and every trespass-offering of theirs, which they shall render to
me, shall be most holy for you and for your sons.
\v 10 As the most holy things shall you eat thereof; every male shall eat thereof: it shall be holy to thee.
\v 11 And this is thine: the heave-offering of their gift, even all the wave-offerings of the children of Israel; I have given
them to thee, and to your sons and to your daughters with thee, as a portion for ever; every one that is clean in your house
shall eat thereof.
\v 12 All the best of the oil, and all the best of the vintage, and of the grain, the first fruits of them which they give to
Jehovah, to you have I given them.
\v 13 The first-ripe fruits of all that is in their land, which they bring to Jehovah, shall be thine; every one that is
clean in your house shall eat thereof.
\v 14 Everything devoted in Israel shall be thine.
\v 15 Everything that opens the womb, of all flesh which they offer to Jehovah, both of man and beast shall be thine:
nevertheless the firstborn of man shall you surely redeem, and the firstling of unclean beasts shall you redeem.
\v 16 And those that are to be redeemed of them from a month old shall you redeem, according to your estimation, for the
money of five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary (the same is twenty gerahs).
\v 17 But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, you shall not redeem; they are
holy: you shall sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shall burn their fat for an offering made by fire, for a sweet savor
to Jehovah.
\v 18 And the flesh of them shall be thine, as the wave-breast and as the right thigh, it shall be thine.
\v 19 All the heave-offerings of the holy things, which the children of Israel offer to Jehovah, have I given thee, and your
sons and your daughters with you, as a portion for ever: it is a covenant of salt for ever before Jehovah to you and to your
seed with thee.
\v 20 And Jehovah said to Aaron, You shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall you have any portion among
them: I am your portion and your inheritance among the children of Israel.
\p
\v 21 And to the children of Levi, behold, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their
service which they serve, even the service of the tent of meeting.
\v 22 And henceforth the children of Israel shall not come near the tent of meeting, lest they bear sin, and die.
\v 23 But the Levites shall do the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute
for ever throughout your generations; and among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
\v 24 For the tithe of the children of Israel, which they offer as a heave-offering to Jehovah, I have given to the Levites
for an inheritance: therefore I have said to them, Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
\p
\v 25 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 26 Moreover you shall speak to the Levites, and say to them, When you take of the children of Israel the tithe which I
have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall offer up a heave-offering of it for Jehovah, a tithe of the tithe.
\v 27 And your heave-offering shall be reckoned to you, as though it were the grain of the threshing-floor, and as the
fulness of the winepress.
\v 28 Thus you also shall offer a heave-offering to Jehovah of all your tithes, which you receive of the children of Israel;
and thereof you shall give Jehovah’s heave-offering to Aaron the priest.
\v 29 Out of all your gifts you shall offer every heave-offering of Jehovah, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part
thereof out of it.
\v 30 Therefore you shall say to them, When you heave the best thereof from it, then it shall be reckoned to the Levites as
the increase of the threshing-floor, and as the increase of the wine-press.
\v 31 And you shall eat it in every place, you and your households: for it is your reward in return for your service in the tent
of meeting.
\v 32 And you shall bear no sin by reason of it, when you have heaved from it the best thereof: and you shall not profane the holy
things of the children of Israel, that you die not.