\c 19
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
\v 2 This is the statute of the law which Jehovah has commanded, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, that they bring
you a red heifer without spot, wherein is no blemish, and upon which never came yoke.
\v 3 And you shall give her to Eleazar the priest, and he shall bring her forth without the camp, and one shall kill her
before his face:
\v 4 and Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle her blood toward the front of the tent of
meeting seven times.
\v 5 And one shall burn the heifer in his sight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn:
\v 6 and the priest shall take cedar-wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
\v 7 Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp,
and the priest shall be unclean until the even.
\v 8 And he that burns her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the
even.
\v 9 And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up without the camp in a clean place; and it
shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water for impurity: it is a sin-offering.
\v 10 And he that gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: and it shall be to
the children of Israel, and to the stranger that sojourneth among them, for a statute for ever.
\p
\v 11 He that touches the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days:
\v 12 the same shall purify himself therewith on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean: but if he purify not
himself the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.
\v 13 Whosoever touches a dead person, the body of a man that has died, and purifieth not himself, defiles the tabernacle of
Jehovah; and that soul shall be cut off from Israel: because the water for impurity was not sprinkled upon him, he shall be
unclean; his uncleanness is yet upon him.
\p
\v 14 This is the law when a man dieth in a tent: every one that comes into the tent, and every one that is in the tent, shall
be unclean seven days.
\v 15 And every open vessel, which has no covering bound upon it, is unclean.
\v 16 And whoever in the open field touches one that is slain with a sword, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave,
shall be unclean seven days.
\v 17 And for the unclean they shall take of the ashes of the burning of the sin-offering; and running water shall be put
thereto in a vessel:
\v 18 and a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels,
and upon the persons that were there, and upon him that touched the bone, or the slain, or the dead, or the grave:
\v 19 and the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day: and on the seventh day he
shall purify him; and he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at even.
\p
\v 20 But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, that soul shall be cut off from the midst of the
assembly, because he has defiled the sanctuary of Jehovah: the water for impurity has not been sprinkled upon him; he is
unclean.
\v 21 And it shall be a perpetual statute to them: and he that sprinkleth the water for impurity shall wash his clothes, and
he that touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until even.
\v 22 And whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean; and the soul that touches it shall be unclean until even.