\c 20
\p
\v 1 And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, came into the wilderness of Zin in the first month: and the
people abode in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.
\p
\v 2 And there was no water for the congregation: and they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.
\v 3 And the people strove with Moses, and spake, saying, Would that we had died when our brethren died before Jehovah!
\v 4 And why have you brought the assembly of Jehovah into this wilderness, that we should die there, we and our beasts?
\v 5 And wherefore have you made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us in to this evil place? it is no place of seed, or of
figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink.
\v 6 And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the tent of meeting, and fell upon their
faces: and the glory of Jehovah appeared to them.
\v 7 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 8 Take the rod, and assemble the congregation, thou, and Aaron your brother, and speak you to the rock before their eyous,
that it give forth its water; and you shall bring forth to them water out of the rock; so you shall give the congregation and
their cattle drink.
\v 9 And Moses took the rod from before Jehovah, as he commanded him.
\p
\v 10 And Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock, and he said to them, Hear now, you rebels; shall we
bring you forth water out of this rock?
\v 11 And Moses lifted up his hand, and struck the rock with his rod twice: and water came forth abundantly, and the
congregation drank, and their cattle.
\v 12 And Jehovah said to Moses and Aaron, Because you believed not in me, to sanctify me in the eyous of the children of
Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land which I have given them.
\v 13 These are the waters of Meribah; because the children of Israel strove with Jehovah, and he was sanctified in them.
\p
\v 14 And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom, Thus says your brother Israel, You know all the travail
that has befallen us:
\v 15 how our fathers went down into Egypt, and we lived in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and our
fathers:
\v 16 and when we cried to Jehovah, he heard our voice, and sent an angel, and brought us forth out of Egypt: and, behold, we
are in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of your border.
\v 17 Let us pass, I pray thee, through your land: we will not pass through field or through vineyard, neither will we drink of
the water of the wells; we will go along the king’s highway; we will not turn aside to the right hand nor to the left, until we
have passed your border.
\v 18 And Edom said to him, You shall not pass through me, lest I come out with the sword against thee.
\v 19 And the children of Israel said to him, We will go up by the highway; and if we drink of your water, I and my cattle,
then will I give the price thereof: let me only, without doing anything
else, pass through on my feet.
\v 20 And he said, You shall not pass through. And Edom came out against him with much people, and with a strong hand.
\v 21 Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his border: wherefore Israel turned away from him.
\p
\v 22 And they journeyed from Kadesh: and the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, came to mount Hor.
\v 23 And Jehovah spoke to Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by the border of the land of Edom, saying,
\v 24 Aaron shall be gathered to his people; for he shall not enter into the land which I have given to the children of
Israel, because you rebelled against my word at the waters of Meribah.
\v 25 Take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them up to mount Hor;
\v 26 and strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son: and Aaron shall be gathered
to his people, and shall die there.
\v 27 And Moses did as Jehovah commanded: and they went up into mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
\v 28 And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son; and Aaron died there on the top of the
mount: and Moses and Eleazar came down from the mount.
\v 29 And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they wept for Aaron thirty days, even all the house of Israel.