\c 22
\nb
\v 1 And the children of Israel journeyed, and encamped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan at Jericho.
\p
\v 2 And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
\v 3 And Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they were many: and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel.
\v 4 And Moab said to the elders of Midian, Now will this multitude lick up all that is round about us, as the ox licketh up
the grass of the field. And Balak the son of Zippor was king of Moab at that time.
\v 5 And he sent messengers to Balaam the son of Beor, to Pethor, which is by the River, to the land of the children of his
people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out from Egypt: behold, they cover the face of the earth, and they
abide over against me.
\v 6 Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people; for they are too mighty for me: perhaps I shall prevail, that
we may strike them, and that I may drive them out of the land; for I know that he whom you blessest is blessed, and he whom
you cursest is cursed.
\p
\v 7 And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the rewards of divination in their hand; and they came to
Balaam, and spoke to him the words of Balak.
\v 8 And he said to them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again, as Jehovah shall speak to me: and the
princes of Moab abode with Balaam.
\v 9 And God came to Balaam, and said, What men are these with thee?
\v 10 And Balaam said to God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me,
saying,
\v 11 Behold, the people that is come out of Egypt, it covers the face of the earth: now, come curse me them; perhaps I
shall be able to fight against them, and shall drive them out.
\v 12 And God said to Balaam, You shall not go with them; you shall not curse the people; for they are blessed.
\v 13 And Balaam rose up in the morning, and said to the princes of Balak, Get you into your land; for Jehovah refuseth to
give me leave to go with you.
\v 14 And the princes of Moab rose up, and they went to Balak, and said, Balaam refuseth to come with us.
\p
\v 15 And Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honorable than they.
\v 16 And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus says Balak the son of Zippor, Let nothing, I pray you, hinder you from
coming to me:
\v 17 for I will promote you to very great honor, and whatever you say to me I will do: come therefore, I pray you,
curse me this people.
\v 18 And Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I
cannot go beyond the word of Jehovah my God, to do less or more.
\v 19 Now therefore, I pray you, wait you also here this night, that I may know what Jehovah will speak to me more.
\v 20 And God came to Balaam at night, and said to him, If the men are come to call thee, rise up, go with them; but only
the word which I speak to thee, that shall you do.
\p
\v 21 And Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went with the princes of Moab.
\v 22 And God’s anger was kindled because he went; and the angel of Jehovah placed himself in the way for an adversary against
him. Now he was riding upon his ass, and his two servants were with him.
\v 23 And the ass saw the angel of Jehovah standing in the way, with his sword drawn in his hand; and the ass turned aside out
of the way, and went into the field: and Balaam struck the ass, to turn her into the way.
\v 24 Then the angel of Jehovah stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, a wall being on this side, and a wall on that
side.
\v 25 And the ass saw the angel of Jehovah, and she thrust herself to the wall, and crushed Balaam’s foot against the wall:
and he struck her again.
\v 26 And the angel of Jehovah went further, and stood in a narrow place, where was no way to turn either to the right hand or
to the left.
\v 27 And the ass saw the angel of Jehovah, and she lay down under Balaam: and Balaam’s anger was kindled, and he struck the ass
with his staff.
\v 28 And Jehovah opened the mouth of the ass, and she said to Balaam, What have I done to thee, that you have struck me
these three times?
\v 29 And Balaam said to the ass, Because you have mocked me: I would there were a sword in my hand, for now I had killed
thee.
\v 30 And the ass said to Balaam, Am not I your ass, upon which you have ridden all your life long to this day? was I ever
wont to do so to thee? and he said, Nay.
\p
\v 31 Then Jehovah opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of Jehovah standing in the way, with his sword drawn in his
hand; and he bowed his head, and fell on his face.
\v 32 And the angel of Jehovah said to him, Wherefore have you struck your ass these three times? behold, I am come forth
for an adversary, because your way is perverse before me:
\v 33 and the ass saw me, and turned aside before me these three times: unless she had turned aside from me, surely now I had
even slain thee, and saved her alive.
\v 34 And Balaam said to the angel of Jehovah, I have sinned; for I knew not that you stood in the way against me: now
therefore, if it displease thee, I will get me back again.
\v 35 And the angel of Jehovah said to Balaam, Go with the men; but only the word that I shall speak to thee, that you
shall speak. So Balaam went with the princes of Balak.
\p
\v 36 And when Balak heard that Balaam was come, he went out to meet him to the City of Moab, which is on the border of the
Arnon, which is in the utmost part of the border.
\v 37 And Balak said to Balaam, Did I not earnestly send to you to call you? wherefore came you not to me? am I not
able indeed to promote you to honor?
\v 38 And Balaam said to Balak, Lo, I am come to thee: have I now any power at all to speak anything? the word that God
puts in my mouth, that shall I speak.
\v 39 And Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath-huzoth.
\v 40 And Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to the princes that were with him.
\p
\v 41 And it came to pass in the morning, that Balak took Balaam, and brought him up into the high places of Baal; and he saw
from thence the utmost part of the people.