\c 28
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 2 Command the children of Israel, and say to them, My oblation, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor
to me, shall you observe to offer to me in their due season.
\v 3 And you shall say to them, This is the offering made by fire which you shall offer to Jehovah: he-lambs a youar old
without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt-offering.
\v 4 The one lamb shall you offer in the morning, and the other lamb shall you offer at even;
\v 5 and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
\v 6 It is a continual burnt-offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire to
Jehovah.
\v 7 And the drink-offering thereof shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shall you pour out a
drink-offering of strong drink to Jehovah.
\v 8 And the other lamb shall you offer at even: as the meal-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering thereof, you
shall offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to Jehovah.
\p
\v 9 And on the sabbath day two he-lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts
of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering thereof:
\v 10 this is the burnt offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt offering, and the drink-offering thereof.
\p
\v 11 And in the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, seven
he-lambs a year old without blemish;
\v 12 and three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for each bullock; and
two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram;
\v 13 and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal-offering to every lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet
savor, an offering made by fire to Jehovah.
\v 14 And their drink-offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the
fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
\v 15 And one he-goat for a sin-offering to Jehovah; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the
drink-offering thereof.
\p
\v 16 And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Jehovah’s passover.
\v 17 And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
\v 18 In the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no servile work;
\v 19 but you shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt offering to Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven
he-lambs a year old; they shall be to you without blemish;
\v 20 and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil: three tenth parts shall you offer for a bullock, and two tenth parts
for the ram;
\v 21 a tenth part shall you offer for every lamb of the seven lambs;
\v 22 and one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you.
\v 23 You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
\v 24 After this manner you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to
Jehovah: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.
\v 25 And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work.
\p
\v 26 Also in the day of the first-fruits, when you offer a new meal-offering to Jehovah in your
feast of weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no servile work;
\v 27 but you shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor to Jehovah: two young bullocks, one ram, seven he-lambs a youar
old;
\v 28 and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bullock, two tenth parts for the one
ram,
\v 29 a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs;
\v 30 one he-goat, to make atonement for you.
\v 31 Besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering thereof, you shall offer them (they shall be to you without
blemish), and their drink-offerings.