\c 32
\p
\v 1 Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle: and when they saw the land of
Jazer, and the land of Gilead, that, behold, the place was a place for cattle;
\v 2 the children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spoke to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the princes
of the congregation, saying,
\v 3 Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Sebam, and Nebo, and Beon,
\v 4 the land which Jehovah struck before the congregation of Israel, is a land for cattle; and your servants have cattle.
\v 5 And they said, If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants for a possession; bring us
not over the Jordan.
\p
\v 6 And Moses said to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to the war, and shall you
sit here?
\v 7 And wherefore discourage you the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which Jehovah has given
them?
\v 8 Thus did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to see the land.
\v 9 For when they went up to the valley of Eshcol, and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel,
that they should not go into the land which Jehovah had given them.
\v 10 And Jehovah’s anger was kindled in that day, and he sware, saying,
\v 11 Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I sware to
Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; because they have not wholly followed me:
\v 12 save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite, and Joshua the son of Nun; because they have wholly followed Jehovah.
\v 13 And Jehovah’s anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander to and fro in the wilderness forty years, until
all the generation, that had done evil in the sight of Jehovah, was consumed.
\v 14 And, behold, you are risen up in your fathers’ stead, an increase of sinful men, to augment yout the fierce anger of
Jehovah toward Israel.
\v 15 For if you turn away from after him, he will yout again leave them in the wilderness; and you will destroy all this people.
\p
\v 16 And they came near to him, and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our cattle, and cities for our little ones:
\v 17 but we ourselves will be ready armed to go before the children of Israel, until we have brought them to their place:
and our little ones shall dwell in the fortified cities because of the inhabitants of the land.
\v 18 We will not return to our houses, until the children of Israel have inherited every man his inheritance.
\v 19 For we will not inherit with them on the other side of the Jordan, and forward; because our inheritance is fallen to us
on this side of the Jordan eastward.
\p
\v 20 And Moses said to them, If you will do this thing, if you will arm yourselves to go before Jehovah to the war,
\v 21 and every armed man of you will pass over the Jordan before Jehovah, until he has driven out his enemies from before
him,
\v 22 and the land is subdued before Jehovah; then afterward you shall return, and be guiltless towards Jehovah, and towards
Israel; and this land shall be to you for a possession before Jehovah.
\v 23 But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against Jehovah; and be sure your sin will find you out.
\v 24 Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep; and do that which has proceeded out of your mouth.
\v 25 And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spoke to Moses, saying, Your servants will do as my lord commandeth.
\v 26 Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle, shall be there in the cities of Gilead;
\v 27 but your servants will pass over, every man that is armed for war, before Jehovah to battle, as my lord saith.
\p
\v 28 So Moses gave charge concerning them to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of the
fathers’ houses of the tribes of the children of Israel.
\v 29 And Moses said to them, If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over the Jordan, every man
that is armed to battle, before Jehovah, and the land shall be subdued before you; then you shall give them the land of Gilead
for a possession:
\v 30 but if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.
\v 31 And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben answered, saying, As Jehovah has said to your servants, so will we
do.
\v 32 We will pass over armed before Jehovah into the land of Canaan, and the possession of our inheritance
shall remain with us beyond the Jordan.
\p
\v 33 And Moses gave to them, even to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh
the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land, according to the
cities thereof with their borders, even the cities of the land round about.
\v 34 And the children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
\v 35 and Atroth-shophan, and Jazer, and Jogbehah,
\v 36 and Beth-nimrah, and Beth-haran: fortified cities, and folds for sheep.
\v 37 And the children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kiriathaim,
\v 38 and Nebo, and Baal-meon, (their names being changed,) and Sibmah: and they gave other names to the cities which they
builded.
\v 39 And the children of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead, and took it, and dispossessed the Amorites that were
therein.
\v 40 And Moses gave Gilead to Machir the son of Manasseh; and he lived therein.
\v 41 And Jair the son of Manasseh went and took the towns thereof, and called them Havvoth-jair.
\v 42 And Nobah went and took Kenath, and the villages thereof, and called it Nobah, after his own name.