\c 35
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
\v 2 Command the children of Israel, that they give to the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in;
and suburbs for the cities round about them shall you give to the Levites.
\v 3 And the cities shall they have to dwell in; and their suburbs shall be for their cattle, and for their substance, and for
all their beasts.
\v 4 And the suburbs of the cities, which you shall give to the Levites, shall be from the wall of the city and outward a
thousand cubits round about.
\v 5 And you shall measure without the city for the east side two thousand cubits, and for the south side two thousand cubits,
and for the west side two thousand cubits, and for the north side two thousand cubits, the city being in the midst. This shall
be to them the suburbs of the cities.
\v 6 And the cities which you shall give to the Levites, they shall be the six cities of refuge, which you shall give for the
manslayour to flee unto: and besides them you shall give forty and two cities.
\v 7 All the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall be forty and eight cities; them
shall you give with their suburbs.
\v 8 And concerning the cities which you shall give of the possession of the children of Israel, from the many you shall take
many; and from the few you shall take few: every one according to his inheritance which he inheriteth shall give of his cities
to the Levites.
\p
\v 9 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
\v 10 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
\v 11 then you shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the manslayour that kills any person unwittingly
may flee thither.
\v 12 And the cities shall be to you for refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the
congregation for judgment.
\v 13 And the cities which you shall give shall be for you six cities of refuge.
\v 14 You shall give three cities beyond the Jordan, and three cities shall you give in the land of Canaan; they shall be cities
of refuge.
\v 15 For the children of Israel, and for the stranger and for the sojourner among them, shall these six cities be for refuge;
that every one that kills any person unwittingly may flee thither.
\p
\v 16 But if he struck him with an instrument of iron, so that he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to
death.
\v 17 And if he struck him with a stone in the hand, whereby a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer: the murderer shall
surely be put to death.
\v 18 Or if he struck him with a weapon of wood in the hand, whereby a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer: the murderer
shall surely be put to death.
\v 19 The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death: when he meets him, he shall put him to death.
\v 20 And if he thrust him of hatred, or hurled at him, lying in wait, so that he died,
\v 21 or in enmity struck him with his hand, so that he died; he that struck him shall surely be put to death; he is a murderer:
the avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death, when he meets him.
\p
\v 22 But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or hurled upon him anything without lying in wait,
\v 23 or with any stone, whereby a man may die, seeing him not, and cast it upon him, so that he died, and he was not his
enemy, neither sought his harm;
\v 24 then the congregation shall judge between the smiter and the avenger of blood according to these ordinances;
\v 25 and the congregation shall deliver the manslayer out of the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall
restore him to his city of refuge, whither he was fled: and he shall dwell therein until the death of the high priest, who was
anointed with the holy oil.
\v 26 But if the manslayer shall at any time go beyond the border of his city of refuge, whither he fleeth,
\v 27 and the avenger of blood find him without the border of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood kill the mankiller;
he shall not be guilty of blood,
\v 28 because he should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest: but after the death of the high
priest the manslayer shall return into the land of his possession.
\p
\v 29 And these things shall be for a statute and ordinance to you throughout your generations in all your
dwellings.
\v 30 Whoso kills any person, the murderer shall be slain at the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify
against any person that he die.
\v 31 Moreover you shall take no ransom for the life of a murderer, that is guilty of death; but he shall surely be put to
death.
\v 32 And you shall take no ransom for him that is fled to his city of refuge, that he may come again to dwell in the land,
until the death of the priest.
\v 33 So you shall not pollute the land wherein you are: for blood, it pollutes the land; and no expiation can be made for the
land for the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.
\v 34 And you shall not defile the land which you inhabit, in the midst of which I dwell: for I, Jehovah, dwell in the midst of
the children of Israel.