\c 3
\p
\v 1 Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which Jehovah God had made. And he said to the woman, Yea,
has God said, You shall not eat of any tree of the garden?
\v 2 And the woman said to the serpent, Of the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat:
\v 3 but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat of it, neither shall you
touch it, lest you die.
\v 4 And the serpent said to the woman, You shall not surely die:
\v 5 for God does know that in the day you eat thereof, then your eyous shall be opened, and you shall be as God, knowing good and
evil.
\v 6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be
desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat; and she gave also to her husband with her, and he did
eat.
\v 7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig-leaves together, and made
themselves aprons.
\v 8 And they heard the voice of Jehovah God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and the man and his wife hid
themselves from the presence of Jehovah God among the trees of the garden.
\p
\v 9 And Jehovah God called to the man, and said to him, Where are thou?
\v 10 And he said, I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.
\v 11 And he said, Who told you that you was naked? Hast you eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded you that you
should not eat?
\v 12 And the man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.
\v 13 And Jehovah God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did
eat.
\v 14 And Jehovah God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all cattle, and above every
beast of the field; upon your belly shall you go, and dust shall you eat all the days of your life:
\v 15 and I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed: he shall bruise your head, and you
shall bruise his heel.
\v 16 To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your pain and your conception; in pain you shall bring forth children; and
your desire shall be to your husband, and he shall rule over thee.
\v 17 And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree, of which I
commanded thee, saying, You shall not eat of it: cursed is the ground for your sake; in toil shall you eat of it all the days
of your life;
\v 18 thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and you shall eat the herb of the field;
\v 19 in the sweat of your face shall you eat bread, till you return to the ground; for out of it was you taken: for dust
you art, and to dust shall you return.
\v 20 And the man called his wife’s name Eve; because she was the mother of all living.
\v 21 And Jehovah God made for Adam and for his wife coats of skins, and clothed them.
\p
\v 22 And Jehovah God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil; and now, lest he put forth his hand,
and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever—
\v 23 therefore Jehovah God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.
\v 24 So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden the Cherubim, and the flame of a sword which
turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.