\c 6
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the ground, and daughters were born to them,
\v 2 that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all that they chose.
\v 3 And Jehovah said, My Spirit shall not strive with man for ever, for that he also is flesh: yet shall his days be a hundred
and twenty years.
\v 4 The Nephilim were in the earth in those days, and also after that, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men,
and they bare children to them: the same were the mighty men that were of old, the men of renown.
\p
\v 5 And Jehovah saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart
was only evil continually.
\v 6 And it repented Jehovah that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.
\v 7 And Jehovah said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the ground; both man, and beast, and creeping
things, and birds of the heavens; for it repenteth me that I have made them.
\v 8 But Noah found favor in the eyes of Jehovah.
\p
\v 9 These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man,
and perfect in his generations: Noah walked with God.
\v 10 And Noah became the father of three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
\v 11 And the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
\v 12 And God saw the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth.
\p
\v 13 And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and,
behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
\v 14 Make you an ark of gopher wood; rooms shall you make in the ark, and shall pitch it within and wiyout with pitch.
\v 15 And this is how you shall make it: the length of the ark three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the
height of it thirty cubits.
\v 16 A light shall you make to the ark, and to a cubit shall you finish it upward; and the door of the ark shall you set in
the side thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shall you make it.
\v 17 And I, behold, I do bring the flood of waters upon this earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from
under heaven; everything that is in the earth shall die.
\v 18 But I will establish my covenant with thee; and you shall come into the ark, you, and your sons, and your wife, and your
sons’ wives with thee.
\v 19 And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shall you bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee;
they shall be male and female.
\v 20 Of the birds after their kind, and of the cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind,
two of every sort shall come to thee, to keep them alive.
\v 21 And take you to you of all food that is eaten, and gather it to you; and it shall be for food for you, and for
them.
\v 22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.