\c 7
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Noah, Come you and all your house into the ark; for you have I seen righteous before me in this
generation.
\v 2 Of every clean beast you shall take to you seven and seven, the male and his female; and of the beasts that are not
clean two, the male and his female:
\v 3 of the birds also of the heavens, seven and seven, male and female, to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
\v 4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and every living thing that I
have made will I destroy from off the face of the ground.
\v 5 And Noah did according to all that Jehovah commanded him.
\p
\v 6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.
\v 7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the
flood.
\v 8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of birds, and of everything that creepeth upon the ground,
\v 9 there went in two and two to Noah into the ark, male and female, as God commanded Noah.
\v 10 And it came to pass after the seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.
\v 11 In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on the same day were
all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.
\v 12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
\p
\v 13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah’s wife, and the three wives
of his sons with them, into the ark;
\v 14 they, and every beast after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, every bird of every sort.
\v 15 And they went in to Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh wherein is the breath of life.
\v 16 And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God commanded him: and Jehovah shut him in.
\v 17 And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lifted up above
the earth.
\v 18 And the waters prevailed, and increased greatly upon the earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
\v 19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the high mountains that were under the whole heaven were
covered.
\v 20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains were covered.
\v 21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both birds, and cattle, and beasts, and every creeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth, and every man:
\v 22 all in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, of all that was on the dry land, died.
\v 23 And every living thing was destroyed that was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and creeping things, and
birds of the heavens; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only was left, and they that were with him in the ark.
\v 24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth a hundred and fifty days.