\c 12
\p
\v 1 Now Jehovah said to Abram, Get you out of your country, and from your kindred, and from your father’s house, to the land
that I will show thee:
\v 2 and I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great; and be you a blessing:
\v 3 and I will bless them that bless you, and him that curses you will I curse: and in you shall all the families of the
earth be blessed.
\v 4 So Abram went, as Jehovah had spoken to him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he
departed out of Haran.
\v 5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother’s son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls
that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.
\v 6 And Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the
land.
\v 7 And Jehovah appeared to Abram, and said, To your seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar to
Jehovah, who appeared to him.
\v 8 And he removed from thence to the mountain on the east of Beth-el, and pitched his tent, having Beth-el on the west, and
Ai on the east: and there he builded an altar to Jehovah, and called upon the name of Jehovah.
\v 9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the South.
\p
\v 10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was sore in the land.
\v 11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said to Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that
you are a fair woman to look upon:
\v 12 and it will come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they will say, This is his wife: and they will kill me,
but they will save you alive.
\v 13 Say, I pray thee, you are my sister; that it may be well with me for your sake, and that my soul may live because of
thee.
\v 14 And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians [*]saw the woman that she was very fair.
\v 15 And the princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her to Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.
\v 16 And he dealt well with Abram for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he-asses, and men-servants, and maid-servants,
and she-asses, and camels.
\v 17 And Jehovah plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram’s wife.
\v 18 And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that you have done to me? why did you not tell me that she was your
wife?
\v 19 why said thou, She is my sister, so that I took her to be my wife? now therefore behold your wife, take her, and go your
way.
\v 20 And Pharaoh gave men charge concerning him: and they brought him on the way, and his wife, and all that he had.