\c 15
\p
\v 1 After these things the word of Jehovah came to Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am your shield,
and your exceeding great reward.
\v 2 And Abram said, O Lord Jehovah, what will you give me, seeing I go childless, and he that shall be possessor of my house
is Eliezer of Damascus?
\v 3 And Abram said, Behold, to me you have given no seed: and, lo, one born in my house is mine heir.
\v 4 And, behold, the word of Jehovah came to him, saying, This man shall not be your heir; but he that shall come forth out
of your own bowels shall be your heir.
\v 5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward heaven, and number the stars, if you be able to number them:
and he said to him, So shall your seed be.
\v 6 And he believed in Jehovah; and he reckoned it to him for righteousness.
\v 7 And he said to him, I am Jehovah that brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give you this land to inherit it.
\v 8 And he said, O Lord Jehovah, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it?
\v 9 And he said to him, Take me a heifer three years old, and a she-goat three years old, and a ram three years old, and a
turtle-dove, and a young pigeon.
\v 10 And he took him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each half over against the other: but the birds
divided he not.
\v 11 And the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.
\p
\v 12 And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, a horror of great darkness fell upon him.
\v 13 And he said to Abram, Know of a surety that your seed shall be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve
them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years;
\v 14 and also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.
\v 15 But you shall go to your fathers in peace; you shall be buried in a good old age.
\v 16 And in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet full.
\v 17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch that
passed between these pieces.
\v 18 In that day Jehovah made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt
to the great river, the river Euphrates:
\v 19 the Kenite, and the Kenizzite, and the Kadmonite,
\v 20 and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Rephaim,
\v 21 and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Girgashite, and the Jebusite.