\c 16
\p
\v 1 Now Sarai, Abram’s wife, bare him no children: and she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
\v 2 And Sarai said to Abram, Behold now, Jehovah has restrained me from bearing; go in, I pray thee, to my handmaid; it
may be that I shall obtain children by her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
\v 3 And Sarai, Abram’s wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her handmaid, after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, and
gave her to Abram her husband to be his wife.
\v 4 And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her
eyes.
\v 5 And Sarai said to Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I gave my handmaid into they bosom; and when she saw that she had
conceived, I was despised in her eyes: Jehovah judge between me and thee.
\v 6 But Abram said to Sarai, Behold, your maid is in your hand; do to her that which is good in your eyes. And Sarai dealt
hardly with her, and she fled from her face.
\p
\v 7 And the angel of Jehovah found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
\v 8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai’s handmaid, whence came thou? and whither go thou? And she said, I am fleeing from the face
of my mistress Sarai.
\v 9 And the angel of Jehovah said to her, Return to your mistress, and submit yourself under her hands.
\v 10 And the angel of Jehovah said to her, I will greatly multiply your seed, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
\v 11 And the angel of Jehovah said to her, Behold, you are with child, and shall bear a son; and you shall call his name
Ishmael, because Jehovah has heard your affliction.
\v 12 And he shall be as a wild ass among men; his hand
shall be against every man, and every man’s hand against him; and he shall dwell over against all his brethren.
\v 13 And she called the name of Jehovah that spoke to her, You are a God that seeth: for she said, Have I even here looked
after him that sees me?
\v 14 Wherefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi; behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
\p
\v 15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bare, Ishmael.
\v 16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram.