\c 17
\p
\v 1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, Jehovah appeared to Abram, and said to him, I am God Almighty; walk before
me, and be you perfect.
\v 2 And I will make my covenant between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly.
\v 3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying,
\v 4 As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations.
\v 5 Neither shall your name any more be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham; for the father of a multitude of nations
have I made thee.
\v 6 And I will make you exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come out of you.
\v 7 And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your seed after you throughout their generations for an
everlasting covenant, to be a God to you and to your seed after you.
\v 8 And I will give to thee, and to your seed after thee, the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an
everlasting possession; and I will be their God.
\p
\v 9 And God said to Abraham, And as for you, you shall keep my covenant, you, and your seed after you throughout their
generations.
\v 10 This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your seed after thee: every male among you shall be
circumcised.
\v 11 And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a token of a covenant between me and you.
\v 12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every male throughout your generations, he that is born in
the house, or bought with money of any foreigner that is not of your seed.
\v 13 He that is born in your house, and he that is bought with your money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be
in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
\v 14 And the uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that soul shall be cut off from his
people; he has broken my covenant.
\p
\v 15 And God said to Abraham, As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.
\v 16 And I will bless her, and moreover I will give you a son of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be
a mother of nations; kings of peoples shall be of her.
\v 17 Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born to him that is a hundred
years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?
\v 18 And Abraham said to God, Oh that Ishmael might live before thee!
\v 19 And God said, Nay, but Sarah your wife shall bear you a son; and you shall call his name Isaac: and I will establish my
covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his seed after him.
\v 20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him
exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.
\v 21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this set time in the next year.
\p
\v 22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
\v 23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every
male among the men of Abraham’s house, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said to
him.
\v 24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
\v 25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
\v 26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.
\v 27 And all the men of his house, those born in the house, and those bought with money of a foreigner, were circumcised with
him.