\c 18
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day;
\v 2 and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood over against him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them
from the tent door, and bowed himself to the earth,
\v 3 and said, My lord, if now I have found favor in your sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from your servant:
\v 4 let now a little water be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree:
\v 5 and I will fetch a morsel of bread, and strengthen you your heart; after that you shall pass on: forasmuch as you are come to
your servant. And they said, So do, as you have said.
\v 6 And Abraham hastened into the tent to Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and
make cakes.
\v 7 And Abraham ran to the herd, and fetched a calf tender and good, and gave it to the servant; and he hasted to dress
it.
\v 8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the
tree, and they did eat.
\p
\v 9 And they said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent.
\v 10 And he said, I will certainly return to you when the season comes round; and, lo, Sarah your wife shall have a son.
And Sarah heard in the tent door, which was behind him.
\v 11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, and well stricken in age; it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of
women.
\v 12 And Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?
\v 13 And Jehovah said to Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, who am old?
\v 14 Is anything too hard for Jehovah? At the set time I will return to thee, when the season comes round, and Sarah shall
have a son.
\v 15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but you did laugh.
\p
\v 16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
\v 17 And Jehovah said, Shall I hide from Abraham that which I do;
\v 18 seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in
him?
\v 19 For I have known him, to the end that he may command his children and his household after him, that they may keep the way
of Jehovah, to do righteousness and justice; to the end that Jehovah may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of him.
\v 20 And Jehovah said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous;
\v 21 I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come to me; and if
not, I will know.
\p
\v 22 And the men turned from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before Jehovah.
\v 23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt you consume the righteous with the wicked?
\v 24 Peradventure there are fifty righteous within the city: will you consume and not spare the place for the fifty righteous
that are therein?
\v 25 That be far from you to do after this manner, to kill the righteous with the wicked, that so the righteous should be as
the wicked; that be far from thee: shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?
\v 26 And Jehovah said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sake.
\v 27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak to the Lord, who am but dust and ashes:
\v 28 perhaps there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: will you destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said,
I will not destroy it, if I find there forty and five.
\v 29 And he spoke to him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it
for the forty’s sake.
\v 30 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak: perhaps there shall thirty be found there. And he said,
I will not do it, if I find thirty there.
\v 31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak to the Lord: perhaps there shall be twenty found there. And
he said, I will not destroy it for the twenty’s sake.
\v 32 And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: perhaps ten shall be found there. And
he said, I will not destroy it for the ten’s sake.
\v 33 And Jehovah went his way, as soon as he had left off communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned to his place.