\c 19
\p
\v 1 And the two angels came to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom: and Lot saw them, and rose up to meet them;
and he bowed himself with his face to the earth;
\v 2 and he said, Behold now, my lords, turn aside, I pray you, into your servant’s house, and wait all night, and wash your
feet, and you shall rise up early, and go on your way. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all night.
\v 3 And he urged them greatly; and they turned in to him, and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake
unleavened bread, and they did eat.
\v 4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both young and
old, all the people from every quarter;
\v 5 and they called to Lot, and said to him, Where are the men that came in to you this night? bring them out to us,
that we may know them.
\v 6 And Lot went out to them to the door, and shut the door after him.
\v 7 And he said, I pray you, my brethren, do not so wickedly.
\v 8 Behold now, I have two daughters that have not known man; let me, I pray you, bring them out to you, and do you to them
as is good in your eyes: only to these men do nothing, forasmuch as they are come under the shadow of my roof.
\v 9 And they said, Stand back. And they said, This one fellow came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we
deal worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and drew near to break the door.
\v 10 But the men put forth their hand, and brought Lot into the house to them, and shut to the door.
\v 11 And they struck the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they wearied
themselves to find the door.
\p
\v 12 And the men said to Lot, Hast you here any besides? son-in-law, and your sons, and your daughters, and whoever you
have in the city, bring them out of the place:
\v 13 for we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxed great before Jehovah; and Jehovah has sent us to
destroy it.
\v 14 And Lot went out, and spoke to his sons-in-law, who married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for
Jehovah will destroy the city. But he seemed to his sons-in-law as one that mocked.
\v 15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take your wife, and your two daughters that are
here, lest you be consumed in the iniquity of the city.
\v 16 But he lingered; and the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two
daughters, Jehovah being merciful to him: and they brought him forth, and set him without the city.
\v 17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for your life; look not behind thee,
neither stay you in all the Plain; escape to the mountain, lest you be consumed.
\v 18 And Lot said to them, Oh, not so, my lord:
\v 19 behold now, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have magnified your lovingkindness, which you have showed
to me in saving my life; and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest evil overtake me, and I die:
\v 20 behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one. Oh let me escape there (is it not a little one?),
and my soul shall live.
\v 21 And he said to him, See, I have accepted you concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow the city of which
you have spoken.
\v 22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till you be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called
Zoar.
\p
\v 23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot came to Zoar.
\v 24 Then Jehovah rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from Jehovah out of heaven;
\v 25 and he overthrew those cities, and all the Plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the
ground.
\v 26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.
\v 27 And Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he had stood before Jehovah:
\v 28 and he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the Plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the land
went up as the smoke of a furnace.
\p
\v 29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the Plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the
midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in which Lot dwelt.
\p
\v 30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and lived in the mountain, and his two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar:
and he lived in a cave, he and his two daughters.
\v 31 And the firstborn said to the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth to come in to us after
the manner of all the earth:
\v 32 come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.
\v 33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and the firstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he knew not
when she lay down, nor when she arose.
\v 34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said to the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father:
let us make him drink wine this night also; and go you in, and lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.
\v 35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the younger arose, and lay with him; and he knew not when she
lay down, nor when she arose.
\v 36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.
\v 37 And the firstborn bare a son, and called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites to this day.
\v 38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name Ben-ammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon to
this day.