\c 20
\p
\v 1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the land of the South, and lived between Kadesh and Shur; and he sojourned in
Gerar.
\v 2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
\v 3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, Behold, you are but a dead man, because of the woman
whom you have taken; for she is a man’s wife.
\v 4 Now Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, Lord, will you kill even a righteous nation?
\v 5 Said he not himself to me, She is my sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the integrity of my
heart and the innocency of my hands have I done this.
\v 6 And God said to him in the dream, Yea, I know that in the integrity of your heart you has done this, and I also withheld
you from sinning against me: therefore suffered I you not to touch her.
\v 7 Now therefore restore the man’s wife; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and you shall live: and if you
restore her not, know you that you shall surely die, you, and all that are thine.
\p
\v 8 And Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men
were sore afraid.
\v 9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, What have you done to us? and wherein have I sinned against thee,
that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? you have done deeds to me that ought not to be done.
\v 10 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What saw you, that you have done this thing?
\v 11 And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will kill me for my wife’s
sake.
\v 12 And moreover she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my
wife:
\v 13 and it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father’s house, that I said to her, This is your kindness
which you shall show to me: at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother.
\v 14 And Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and male servants and womale servants, and gave them to Abraham, and restored him
Sarah his wife.
\v 15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleases thee.
\v 16 And to Sarah he said, Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, it is for you a covering
of the eyes to all that are with thee; and in respect of all you are righted.
\v 17 And Abraham prayed to God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maid-servants; and they bare children.
\v 18 For Jehovah had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.