\c 21
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah visited Sarah as he had said, and Jehovah did to Sarah as he had spoken.
\v 2 And Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.
\v 3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born to him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.
\v 4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
\v 5 And Abraham was a hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born to him.
\v 6 And Sarah said, God has made me to laugh; every one that hears will laugh with me.
\v 7 And she said, Who would have said to Abraham, that Sarah should give children suck? for I have borne him a son in his
old age.
\p
\v 8 And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
\v 9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking.
\v 10 Wherefore she said to Abraham, Cast out this handmaid and her son: for the son of this handmaid shall not be heir with
my son, even with Isaac.
\v 11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham’s sight on account of his son.
\v 12 And God said to Abraham, Let it not be grievous in your sight because of the lad, and because of your handmaid; in all
that Sarah says to thee, listen to her voice; for in Isaac shall your seed be called.
\v 13 And also of the son of the handmaid will I make a nation, because he is your seed.
\v 14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her
shoulder, and gave her the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba.
\v 15 And the water in the bottle was spent, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.
\v 16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as it were a bowshot: for she said, Let me not look upon
the death of the child. And she sat over against him, and lifted up her voice, and wept.
\v 17 And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said to her, What aileth
thee, Hagar? fear not; for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is.
\v 18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in your hand; for I will make him a great nation.
\v 19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad
drink.
\v 20 And God was with the lad, and he grew; and he lived in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer.
\v 21 And he lived in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
\p
\v 22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phicol the captain of his host spoke to Abraham, saying, God is
with you in all that you doest:
\v 23 now therefore swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son’s son:
but according to the kindness that I have done to thee, you shall do to me, and to the land wherein you have sojourned.
\v 24 And Abraham said, I will swear.
\v 25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of the well of water, which Abimelech’s servants had violently taken away.
\v 26 And Abimelech said, I know not who has done this thing: neither did you tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but
to-day.
\v 27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them to Abimelech; and they two made a covenant.
\v 28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
\v 29 And Abimelech said to Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs which you have set by themselves?
\v 30 And he said, These seven ewe lambs shall you take of my hand, that it may be a witness to me, that I have digged this
well.
\v 31 Wherefore he called that place Beer-sheba; because there they sware both of them.
\v 32 So they made a covenant at Beer-sheba: and Abimelech rose up, and Phicol the captain of his host, and they returned into
the land of the Philistines.
\v 33 And Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beer-sheba, and called there on the name of Jehovah, the Everlasting
God.
\v 34 And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days.