\c 22
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did prove Abraham, and said to him, Abraham; and he said, Here am I.
\v 2 And he said, Take now your son, your only son, whom you lovest, even Isaac, and get you into the land of Moriah; and
offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell you of.
\v 3 And Abraham rose early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son; and
he clave the wood for the burnt-offering, and rose up, and went to the place of which God had told him.
\v 4 On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
\v 5 And Abraham said to his young men, Abide you here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder; and we will worship,
and come again to you.
\v 6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt-offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took in his hand the fire and the
knife; and they went both of them together.
\v 7 And Isaac spoke to Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, the
fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt-offering?
\v 8 And Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt-offering, my son: so they went both of them together.
\p
\v 9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and
bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, upon the wood.
\v 10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to kill his son.
\v 11 And the angel of Jehovah called to him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.
\v 12 And he said, Lay not your hand upon the lad, neither do you anything to him; for now I know that you fear God,
seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me.
\v 13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, behind
him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a
burnt offering in the stead of his son.
\v 14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah-jireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of Jehovah it shall be
provided.
\v 15 And the angel of Jehovah called to Abraham a second time out of heaven,
\v 16 and said, By myself have I sworn, says Jehovah, because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your
only son,
\v 17 that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the
sand which is upon the seashore; and your seed shall possess the gate of his enemies;
\v 18 and in your seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because you have obeyed my voice.
\v 19 So Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beer-sheba; and Abraham lived at
Beer-sheba.
\p
\v 20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she also has borne children
to your brother Nahor:
\v 21 Uz his first-born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
\v 22 and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
\v 23 And Bethuel became the father of Rebekah: these eight did Milcah bear to Nahor, Abraham’s brother.
\v 24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she also bare Tebah, and Gaham, and Tahash, and Maacah.