\c 24
\p
\v 1 And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and Jehovah had blessed Abraham in all things.
\v 2 And Abraham said to his servant, the elder of his house, that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, your hand
under my thigh:
\v 3 and I will make you swear by Jehovah, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that you will not take a wife for my
son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell:
\v 4 but you shall go to my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife for my son Isaac.
\v 5 And the servant said to him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me to this land: must I needs bring
your son again to the land from whence you camest?
\v 6 And Abraham said to him, Beware you that you bring not my son there again.
\v 7 Jehovah, the God of heaven, who took me from my father’s house, and from the land of my nativity, and who spoke to me,
and who sware to me, saying, To your seed will I give this land; he will send his angel before thee, and you shall take a
wife for my son from thence.
\v 8 And if the woman be not willing to follow thee, then you shall be clear from this my oath; only you shall not bring my
son there again.
\v 9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning this matter.
\p
\v 10 And the servant took ten camels, of the camels of his master, and departed, having all goodly things of his master’s in
his hand: and he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor.
\v 11 And he made the camels to kneel down without the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time that women go
out to draw water.
\v 12 And he said, O Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, send me, I pray thee, good speed this day, and show kindness to
my master Abraham.
\v 13 Behold, I am standing by the fountain of water; and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water:
\v 14 and let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down your pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink; and
she shall say, Drink, and I will give your camels drink also: ret the same be she that you have appointed for your servant
Isaac; and thereby shall I know that you have showed kindness to my master.
\v 15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel the son of
Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.
\v 16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her: and she went down to the fountain,
and filled her pitcher, and came up.
\v 17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Give me to drink, I pray thee, a little water from your pitcher.
\v 18 And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.
\v 19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw for your camels also, until they have done drinking.
\v 20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again to the well to draw, and drew for all his
camels.
\v 21 And the man looked stedfastly on her, holding his peace, to know whether Jehovah had made his journey prosperous or not.
\v 22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden ring of half a shekel weight, and two
bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold,
\v 23 and said, Whose daughter are thou? Tell me, I pray thee. Is there room in your father’s house for us to lodge in?
\v 24 And she said to him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, whom she bare to Nahor.
\v 25 She said moreover to him, We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in.
\v 26 And the man bowed his head, and worshipped Jehovah.
\v 27 And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken his lovingkindness and his truth
toward my master: as for me, Jehovah has led me in the way to the house of my master’s brethren.
\p
\v 28 And the damsel ran, and told her mother’s house according to these words.
\v 29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran out to the man, to the fountain.
\v 30 And it came to pass, when he saw the ring, and the bracelets upon his sister’s hands, and when he heard the words of
Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spoke the man to me; that he came to the man; and, behold, he was standing by the camels
at the fountain.
\v 31 And he said, Come in, you blessed of Jehovah; wherefore stand you wiyout? for I have prepared the house, and room
for the camels.
\v 32 And the man came into the house, and he ungirded the camels; and he gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to
wash his feet and the feet of the men that were with him.
\v 33 And there was set food before him to eat: but he said, I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak
on.
\v 34 And he said, I am Abraham’s servant.
\v 35 And Jehovah has blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he has given him flocks and herds, and silver
and gold, and male servants and maid-servants, and camels and asses.
\v 36 And Sarah my master’s wife bare a son to my master when she was old: and to him has he given all that he has.
\v 37 And my master made me swear, saying, You shall not take a wife for my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose
land I dwell:
\v 38 but you shall go to my father’s house, and to my kindred, and take a wife for my son.
\v 39 And I said to my master, Peradventure the woman will not follow me.
\v 40 And he said to me, Jehovah, before whom I walk, will send his angel with thee, and prosper your way; and you shall take
a wife for my son of my kindred, and of my father’s house:
\v 41 then shall you be clear from my oath, when you come to my kindred; and if they give her not to thee, you shall be
clear from my oath.
\v 42 And I came this day to the fountain, and said, O Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, if now you do prosper my way
which I go:
\v 43 behold, I am standing by the fountain of water; and let it come to pass, that the maiden that comes forth to draw, to
whom I shall say, Give me, I pray thee, a little water from your pitcher to drink;
\v 44 and she shall say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for your camels: let the same be the woman whom Jehovah
has appointed for my master’s son.
\v 45 And before I had done speaking in my heart, behold, Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went
down to the fountain, and drew: and I said to her, Let me drink, I pray thee.
\v 46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give your camels drink also:
so I drank, and she made the camels drink also.
\v 47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter are thou? And she said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor’s son, whom Milcah bare
to him: and I put the ring upon her nose, and the bracelets upon her hands.
\v 48 And I bowed my head, and worshipped Jehovah, and blessed Jehovah, the God of my master Abraham, who had led me in the
right way to take my master’s brother’s daughter for his son.
\v 49 And now if you will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand,
or to the left.
\p
\v 50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth from Jehovah: we cannot speak to you bad or good.
\v 51 Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be your master’s son’s wife, as Jehovah has spoken.
\v 52 And it came to pass, that, when Abraham’s servant heard their words, he bowed himself down to the earth to Jehovah.
\v 53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also
to her brother and to her mother precious things.
\v 54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him, and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning,
and he said, Send me away to my master.
\v 55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us
a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.
\v 56 And he said to them, Hinder me not, seeing Jehovah has prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.
\v 57 And they said, We will call the damsel, and inquire at her mouth.
\v 58 And they called Rebekah, and said to her, Wilt you go with this man? And she said, I will go.
\v 59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham’s servant, and his men.
\v 60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said to her, Our sister, be you
the mother of thousands of ten thousands, and let your seed possess the gate of those that hate them.
\p
\v 61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah,
and went his way.
\v 62 And Isaac came from the way of Beer-lahai-roi; for he lived in the land of the South.
\v 63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, there were
camels coming.
\v 64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she alighted from the camel.
\v 65 And she said to the servant, What man is this that walks in the field to meet us? And the servant said, It is my
master: and she took her veil, and covered herself.
\v 66 And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done.
\v 67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her. And
Isaac was comforted after his mother’s death.