\c 26
\p
\v 1 And there was a famine in the land, besides the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to
Abimelech king of the Philistines, to Gerar.
\v 2 And Jehovah appeared to him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell you of:
\v 3 sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for to thee, and to your seed, I will give all
these lands, and I will establish the oath which I sware to Abraham your father;
\v 4 and I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and will give to your seed all these lands; and in your seed shall
all the nations of the earth be blessed;
\v 5 because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
\v 6 And Isaac lived in Gerar:
\v 7 and the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: For he feared to say, My wife; lest,
said he, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.
\v 8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window,
and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.
\v 9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is your wife: and how said thou, She is my sister? And
Isaac said to him, Because I said, Lest I die because of her.
\v 10 And Abimelech said, What is this you have done to us? one of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you
would have brought guiltiness upon us.
\v 11 And Abimelech charged all the people, saying, He that touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
\p
\v 12 And Isaac sowed in that land, and found in the same year a hundredfold: and Jehovah blessed him.
\v 13 And the man waxed great, and grew more and more until he became very great:
\v 14 and he had possessions of flocks, and possessions of herds, and a great household: and the Philistines envied him.
\v 15 Now all the wells which his father’s servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped,
and filled with earth.
\v 16 And Abimelech said to Isaac, Go from us; for you are much mightier than we.
\v 17 And Isaac departed thence, and encamped in the valley of Gerar, and lived there.
\p
\v 18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines
had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
\v 19 And Isaac’s servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.
\v 20 And the herdsmen of Gerar strove with Isaac’s herdsmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well
Esek, because they contended with him.
\v 21 And they digged another well, and they strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah.
\v 22 And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth;
and he said, For now Jehovah has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.
\p
\v 23 And he went up from thence to Beer-sheba.
\v 24 And Jehovah appeared to him the same night, and said, I am the God of Abraham your father: fear not, for I am with thee,
and will bless thee, and multiply your seed for my servant Abraham’s sake.
\v 25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of Jehovah, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac’s
servants digged a well.
\p
\v 26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath his friend, and Phicol the captain of his host.
\v 27 And Isaac said to them, Wherefore are you come to me, seeing you hate me, and have sent me away from you?
\v 28 And they said, We saw plainly that Jehovah was with thee: and we said, Let there now be an oath between us, even between
us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee,
\v 29 that you will do us no hurt, as we have not touched you, and as we have done to you nothing but good, and have sent
you away in peace: you are now the blessed of Jehovah.
\v 30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
\v 31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him
in peace.
\v 32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac’s servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and
said to him, We have found water.
\v 33 And he called it Shibah: therefore the name of the city is Beer-sheba to this day.
\p
\v 34 And when Esau was forty years old he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath the daughter of
Elon the Hittite:
\v 35 and they were a grief of mind to Isaac and to Rebekah.