\c 28
\p
\v 1 And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said to him, You shall not take a wife of the daughters
of Canaan.
\v 2 Arise, go to Paddan-aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother’s father; and take you a wife from thence of the daughters
of Laban your mother’s brother.
\v 3 And God Almighty bless you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, that you may be a company of peoples;
\v 4 and give you the blessing of Abraham, to you, and to your seed with you; that you may inherit the land of your
sojournings, which God gave to Abraham.
\v 5 And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Paddan-aram to Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah,
Jacob’s and Esau’s mother.
\p
\v 6 Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Paddan-aram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he
blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, You shall not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;
\v 7 and that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Paddan-aram:
\v 8 and Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father;
\v 9 and Esau went to Ishmael, and took, besides the wives that he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham’s son, the
sister of Nebaioth, to be his wife.
\p
\v 10 And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba, and went toward Haran.
\v 11 And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took one of the stones
of the place, and put it under his head, and lay down in that place to sleep.
\v 12 And he dreamed; and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and behold, the angels of
God ascending and descending on it.
\v 13 And, behold, Jehovah stood above it, and said, I am Jehovah, the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac: the
land whereon you liest, to you will I give it, and to your seed;
\v 14 and your seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the
north, and to the south: and in you and in your seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
\v 15 And, behold, I am with you, and will keep you wherever you goest, and will bring you again into this land; for I
will not leave you, until I have done that which I have spoken to you of.
\v 16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely Jehovah is in this place; and I knew it not.
\v 17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate
of heaven.
\p
\v 18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar,
and poured oil upon the top of it.
\v 19 And he called the name of that place Beth-el: but the name of the city was Luz at the first.
\v 20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to
eat, and raiment to put on,
\v 21 so that I come again to my father’s house in peace, and Jehovah will be my God,
\v 22 then this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God’s house: and of all that you shall give me I will surely
give the tenth to thee.