\c 30
\p
\v 1 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and she said to Jacob, Give me children,
or else I die.
\v 2 And Jacob’s anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God’s stead, who has withheld from you the fruit of
the womb?
\v 3 And she said, Behold, my maid Bilhah, go in to her; that she may bear upon my knees, and I also may obtain children by
her.
\v 4 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in to her.
\v 5 And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.
\v 6 And Rachel said, God has judged me, and has also heard my voice, and has given me a son: therefore called she his name
Dan.
\v 7 And Bilhah Rachel’s handmaid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son.
\v 8 And Rachel said, With mighty wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and have prevailed: and she called his name
Naphtali.
\p
\v 9 When Leah saw that she had left off bearing, she took Zilpah her handmaid, and gave her to Jacob to wife.
\v 10 And Zilpah Leah’s handmaid bare Jacob a son.
\v 11 And Leah said, Fortunate! and she called his name Gad.
\v 12 And Zilpah Leah’s handmaid bare Jacob a second son.
\v 13 And Leah said, Happy am I! for the daughters will call me happy: and she called his name Asher.
\p
\v 14 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them to his mother Leah.
Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of your son’s mandrakes.
\v 15 And she said to her, Is it a small matter that you have taken away my husband? and would you take away my son’s
mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with you tonight for your son’s mandrakes.
\v 16 And Jacob came from the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, You must come in to me; for I
have surely hired you with my son’s mandrakes. And he lay with her that night.
\v 17 And God listened to Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob a fifth son.
\v 18 And Leah said, God has given me my hire, because I gave my handmaid to my husband: and she called his name Issachar.
\v 19 And Leah conceived again, and bare a sixth son to Jacob.
\v 20 And Leah said, God has endowed me with a good dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have borne him six
sons: and she called his name Zebulun.
\v 21 And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.
\v 22 And God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her, and opened her womb.
\v 23 And she conceived, and bare a son: and said, God has taken away my reproach:
\v 24 and she called his name Joseph, saying, Jehovah add to me another son.
\p
\v 25 And it came to pass, when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said to Laban, Send me away, that I may go to mine own
place, and to my country.
\v 26 Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for you know my service wherewith I have
served thee.
\v 27 And Laban said to him, If now I have found favor in your eyes,
tarry: for I have divined that Jehovah has blessed me for your sake.
\v 28 And he said, Appoint me your wages, and I will give it.
\v 29 And he said to him, You know how I have served thee, and how your cattle have fared with me.
\v 30 For it was little which you had before I came, and it has increased to a multitude; and Jehovah has blessed you
wherever I turned: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?
\v 31 And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, You shall not give me aught: if you will do this thing for me, I
will again feed your flock and keep it.
\v 32 I will pass through all your flock to-day, removing from thence every speckled and spotted one, and every black one among
the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of
such shall be my hire.
\v 33 So shall my righteousness answer for me hereafter, when you shall come concerning my hire that is before thee: every one
that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and black among the sheep, that,
if found with me, shall be counted stolen.
\v 34 And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to your word.
\v 35 And he removed that day the he-goats that were ringstreaked and spotted, and all the she-goats that were speckled and
spotted, every one that had white in it, and all the black ones among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons;
\v 36 and he set three days’ journey between himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban’s flocks.
\p
\v 37 And Jacob took him rods of fresh poplar, and of the almond and of the plane-tree; and peeled white streaks in them, and
made the white appear which was in the rods.
\v 38 And he set the rods which he had peeled over against the flocks in the gutters in the watering-troughs where the flocks
came to drink; and they conceived when they came to drink.
\v 39 And the flocks conceived before the rods, and the flocks brought forth ringstreaked, speckled, and spotted.
\v 40 And Jacob separated the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstreaked and all the black in the flock of
Laban: and he put his own droves apart, and put them not to Laban’s flock.
\v 41 And it came to pass, whenever the stronger of the flock did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the
flock in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods;
\v 42 but when the flock were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban’s, and the stronger Jacob’s.
\v 43 And the man increased exceedingly, and had large flocks, and female servants and men-servants, and camels and asses.