\c 32
\p
\v 1 And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
\v 2 And Jacob said when he saw them, This is God’s host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.
\p
\v 3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother to the land of Seir, the field of Edom.
\v 4 And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall you say to my lord Esau: Thus says your servant Jacob, I have sojourned with
Laban, and stayed until now:
\v 5 and I have oxen, and asses, and flocks, and men-servants, and maid-servants: and I have sent to tell my lord,
that I may find favor in your sight.
\v 6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to your brother Esau, and moreover he comes to meet thee, and four
hundred men with him.
\v 7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and was distressed: and he divided the people that were with him, and the flocks, and the
herds, and the camels, into two companies;
\v 8 and he said, If Esau come to the one company, and strike it, then the company which is left shall escape.
\v 9 And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, who said to me, Return to your
country, and to your kindred, and I will do you good:
\v 10 I am not woryour of the least of all the lovingkindnesses, and of all the truth, which you have showed to your servant;
for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two companies.
\v 11 Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he come and strike me,
the mother with the children.
\v 12 And you saidst, I will surely do you good, and make your seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for
multitude.
\p
\v 13 And he lodged there that night, and took of that which he had with him a present for Esau his brother:
\v 14 two hundred she-goats and twenty he-goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams,
\v 15 thirty milch camels and their colts, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty she-asses and ten foals.
\v 16 And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by itself, and said to his servants, Pass over before
me, and put a space between drove and drove.
\v 17 And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meets thee, and asks thee, saying, Whose are thou? and
whither go thou? and whose are these before thee?
\v 18 then you shall say, They are your servant Jacob’s; it is a present sent to my lord Esau: and, behold, he also
is behind us.
\v 19 And he commanded also the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall you speak
to Esau, when you find him;
\v 20 and you shall say, Moreover, behold, your servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that
goes before me, and afterward I will see his face; perhaps he will accept me.
\v 21 So the present passed over before him: and he himself lodged that night in the company.
\p
\v 22 And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two handmaids, and his eleven children, and passed over the
ford of the Jabbok.
\v 23 And he took them, and sent them over the stream, and sent over that which he had.
\v 24 And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day.
\v 25 And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh
was strained, as he wrestled with him.
\v 26 And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let you go, except you bless me.
\v 27 And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob.
\v 28 And he said, Your name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for you have striven with God and with men, and have
prevailed.
\v 29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, your name. And he said, Wherefore is it that you do ask after my
name? And he blessed him there.
\v 30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for, said
he, I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.
\v 31 And the sun rose upon him as he passed over Penuel, and he limped upon his thigh.
\v 32 Therefore the children of Israel eat not the sinew of the hip which is upon the hollow of the thigh, to this day:
because he touched the hollow of Jacob’s thigh in the sinew of the hip.