\c 33
\p
\v 1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau was coming, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the
children to Leah, and to Rachel, and to the two handmaids.
\v 2 And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.
\v 3 And he himself passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.
\v 4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept.
\v 5 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are these with thee? And he said, The
children whom God has graciously given your servant.
\v 6 Then the handmaids came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves.
\v 7 And Leah also and her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed
themselves.
\v 8 And he said, What meanest you by all this company which I met? And he said, To find favor in the sight of my lord.
\v 9 And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; let that which you have be thine.
\v 10 And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found favor in your sight, then receive my present at my hand; forasmuch
as I have seen your face, as one sees the face of God, and you was pleased with me.
\v 11 Take, I pray thee, my gift that is brought to thee; because God has dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough.
And he urged him, and he took it.
\v 12 And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee.
\v 13 And he said to him, My lord knows that the children are tender, and that the flocks and herds with me have their
young: and if they overdrive them one day, all the flocks will die.
\v 14 Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on gently, according to the pace of the cattle
that are before me and according to the pace of the children, until I come to my lord to Seir.
\v 15 And Esau said, Let me now leave with you some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needs it? let me find
favor in the sight of my lord.
\v 16 So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir.
\v 17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him a house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is
called Succoth.
\p
\v 18 And Jacob came in peace to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Paddan-aram; and
encamped before the city.
\v 19 And he bought the parcel of ground, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem’s father,
for a hundred pieces of money.
\v 20 And he erected there an altar, and called it El-Elohe-Israel.