\c 34
\p
\v 1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she bare to Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.
\v 2 And Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her; and he took her, and lay with her, and humbled
her.
\v 3 And his soul clave to Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spoke kindly to the damsel.
\v 4 And Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife.
\v 5 Now Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter; and his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his
peace until they came.
\v 6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to commune with him.
\v 7 And the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth,
because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob’s daughter; which thing ought not to be done.
\v 8 And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you, give her to him
to wife.
\v 9 And make you marriages with us; give your daughters to us, and take our daughters to you.
\v 10 And you shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade you therein, and get you possessions
therein.
\v 11 And Shechem said to her father and to her brethren, Let me find favor in your eyous, and what you shall say to me I
will give.
\v 12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as you shall say to me: but give me the damsel to wife.
\v 13 And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father with guile, and spake, because he had defiled Dinah their
sister,
\v 14 and said to them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach
to us.
\v 15 Only on this condition will we consent to you: if you will be as we are, that every male of you be circumcised;
\v 16 then will we give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will
become one people.
\v 17 But if you will not listen to us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone.
\p
\v 18 And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor’s son.
\v 19 And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob’s daughter: and he was honored above all
the house of his father.
\v 20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came to the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying,
\v 21 These men are peaceful with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; for, behold, the land is large
enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters.
\v 22 Only on this condition will the men consent to us to dwell with us, to become one people, if every male among us be
circumcised, as they are circumcised.
\v 23 Shall not their cattle and their substance and all their beasts be ours? only let us consent to them, and they will
dwell with us.
\v 24 And to Hamor and to Shechem his son listened all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was
circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city.
\v 25 And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s
brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city unawares, and killed all the males.
\v 26 And they killed Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem’s house, and went
forth.
\v 27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and plundered the city, because they had defiled their sister.
\v 28 They took their flocks and their herds and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field;
\v 29 and all their wealth, and all their little ones and their wives, took they captive and made a prey, even all that was in
the house.
\v 30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You have troubled me, to make me odious to the inhabitants of the land, among the
Canaanites and the Perizzites: and, I being few in number, they will gather themselves together against me and strike me; and I
shall be destroyed, I and my house.
\v 31 And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with a harlot?