\c 44
\p
\v 1 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men’s sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put
every man’s money in his sack’s mouth.
\v 2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack’s mouth of the youngest, and his grain money. And he did according to the word
that Joseph had spoken.
\v 3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses.
\v 4 And when they were gone out of the city, and were not yet far off, Joseph said to his steward, Up, follow
after the men; and when you do overtake them, say to them, Wherefore have you rewarded evil for good?
\v 5 Is not this that in which my lord drinketh, and whereby he indeed divineth? you have done evil in so doing.
\v 6 And he overtook them, and he spoke to them these words.
\v 7 And they said to him, Wherefore speaks my lord such words as these? Far be it from your servants that they should do
such a thing.
\v 8 Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks’ mouths, we brought again to you out of the land of Canaan: how then
should we steal out of your lord’s house silver or gold?
\v 9 With whoever of your servants it be found, let him die, and we also will be my lord’s bondmen.
\v 10 And he said, Now also let it be according to your words: he with whom it is found shall be my bondman; and you shall be
blameless.
\v 11 Then they hasted, and took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack.
\v 12 And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left off at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin’s
sack.
\v 13 Then they tore their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city.
\p
\v 14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph’s house; and he was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.
\v 15 And Joseph said to them, What deed is this that you have done? know you not that such a man as I can indeed divine?
\v 16 And Judah said, What shall we say to my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God has found out
the iniquity of your servants: behold, we are my lord’s bondmen, both we, and he also in whose hand the cup is found.
\v 17 And he said, Far be it from me that I should do so: the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my bondman; but
as for you, get you up in peace to your father.
\p
\v 18 Then Judah came near to him, and said, Oh, my lord, let your servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord’s ears, and
let not your anger burn against your servant; for you are even as Pharaoh.
\v 19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have you a father, or a brother?
\v 20 And we said to my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is
dead, and he alone is left of his mother; and his father loves him.
\v 21 And you said to your servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set mine eyes upon him.
\v 22 And we said to my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die.
\v 23 And you said to your servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, you shall see my face no more.
\v 24 And it came to pass when we came up to your servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.
\v 25 And our father said, Go again, buy us a little food.
\v 26 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down; for we may not see the man’s
face, except our youngest brother be with us.
\v 27 And your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bare me two sons:
\v 28 and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I have not seen him since:
\v 29 and if you take this one also from me, and harm befall him, you will bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol.
\v 30 Now therefore when I come to your servant my father, and the lad is not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the
lad’s life;
\v 31 it will come to pass, when he sees that the lad is not with
us, that he will die: and your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father with sorrow to Sheol.
\v 32 For your servant became surety for the lad to my father, saying, If I bring him not to thee, then shall I bear the
blame to my father for ever.
\v 33 Now therefore, let your servant, I pray thee, abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with
his brethren.
\v 34 For how shall I go up to my father, if the lad be not with me? lest I see the evil that shall come on my father.