\c 46
\p
\v 1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifices to the God of his
father Isaac.
\v 2 And God spoke to Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.
\v 3 And he said, I am God, the God of your father: fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of you a great
nation:
\v 4 I will go down with you into Egypt; and I will also surely bring you up again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon your
eyes.
\v 5 And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their
wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
\v 6 And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and
all his seed with him:
\v 7 his sons, and his sons’ sons with him, his daughters, and his sons’ daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into
Egypt.
\p
\v 8 And these are the names of the children of Israel, who came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob’s first-born.
\v 9 And the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, and Pallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.
\v 10 And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.
\v 11 And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
\v 12 And the sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Perez, and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And
the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul.
\v 13 And the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puvah, and Iob, and Shimron.
\v 14 And the sons of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.
\v 15 These are the sons of Leah, whom she bare to Jacob in Paddan-aram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons
and his daughters were thirty and three.
\v 16 And the sons of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
\v 17 And the sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister; and the sons of Beriah: Heber,
and Malchiel.
\v 18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter; and these she bare to Jacob, even sixteen souls.
\v 19 The sons of Rachel Jacob’s wife: Joseph and Benjamin.
\v 20 And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Poti-phera priest of
On, bare to him.
\v 21 And the sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
\v 22 These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob: all the souls were fourteen.
\v 23 And the sons of Dan: Hushim.
\v 24 And the sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.
\v 25 These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and these she bare to Jacob: all the souls were
seven.
\v 26 All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, that came out of his loins, besides Jacob’s sons’ wives, all the souls
were threescore and six;
\v 27 and the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, that came
into Egypt, were threescore and ten.
\p
\v 28 And he sent Judah before him to Joseph, to show the way before him to Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.
\v 29 And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen; and he presented himself to him,
and fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.
\v 30 And Israel said to Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen your face, that you are yet alive.
\v 31 And Joseph said to his brethren, and to his father’s house, I will go up, and tell Pharaoh, and will say to him, My
brethren, and my father’s house, who were in the land of Canaan, are come to me;
\v 32 and the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and
all that they have.
\v 33 And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What is your occupation?
\v 34 that you shall say, Your servants have been keepers of cattle from our youth even until now, both we, and our fathers: that
you may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.