\c 50
\p
\v 1 And Joseph fell upon his father’s face, and wept upon him, and kissed him.
\v 2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.
\v 3 And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of embalming: and the Egyptians wept for him
threescore and ten days.
\p
\v 4 And when the days of weeping for him were past, Joseph spoke to the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found favor
in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
\v 5 My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shall you
bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.
\v 6 And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury your father, according as he made you swear.
\v 7 And Joseph went up to bury his father; and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all
the elders of the land of Egypt,
\v 8 and all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father’s house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their
herds, they left in the land of Goshen.
\v 9 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company.
\v 10 And they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, and there they lamented with a very great and
sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days.
\v 11 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a
grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abel-mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan.
\v 12 And his sons did to him according as he commanded them:
\v 13 for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham
bought with the field, for a possession of a burying-place, of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.
\v 14 And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had
buried his father.
\p
\v 15 And when Joseph’s brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, It may be that Joseph will hate us, and will fully
requite us all the evil which we did to him.
\v 16 And they sent a message to Joseph, saying, Your father did command before he died, saying,
\v 17 So shall you say to Joseph, Forgive, I pray you now, the transgression of your brethren, and their sin, for that they
did to you evil. And now, we pray you, forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father. And Joseph wept
when they spoke to him.
\v 18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we are your servants.
\v 19 And Joseph said to them, Fear not: for am I in the place of God?
\v 20 And as for you, you meant evil against me; but God meant it for good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much
people alive.
\v 21 Now therefore fear you not: I will nourish you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spoke kindly to them.
\p
\v 22 And Joseph lived in Egypt, he, and his father’s house: and Joseph lived a hundred and ten years.
\v 23 And Joseph saw Ephraim’s children of the third generation: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were born upon
Joseph’s knees.
\v 24 And Joseph said to his brethren, I die; but God will surely visit you, and bring you up out of this land to the land
which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
\v 25 And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from
hence.
\v 26 So Joseph died, being a hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.