\c 3
\s Ephesians 3:1-13
\sr I am in prison because God appointed me to tell non-Jews that Christ is the source of great spiritual blessings for them.
\p
\v 1 Because  God has done all this for you non-Jews, I, Paul, pray for you. I want you to know that it is because I serve Christ Jesus for your sake that I am in prison. 
\v 2 I assume that someone has told you how God acted very kindly toward me, appointing me  so that I would proclaim the good message to you non-Jews. 
\v 3 God revealed to me the message that he had not revealed to others. When you read what I have already written briefly about that, 
\v 4 you will be able to understand that I understand clearly that message about Christ. 
\v 5 Formerly, God did not reveal that message to anyone, but now his Spirit has revealed that message to his holy apostles and prophets. 
\v 6 That message, which he has now revealed, is that because of our as a result of our believing the good message  about Christ. 
\v 7 By God powerfully enabling me, and because God acted kindly toward me, doing what I did not deserve, and chose me  to do that work, I became one person who tells others this good message.
\p
\v 8 Although I am the least  worthy of all God's people, God kindly  appointed me to proclaim to the non-Jews the message about the great spiritual blessings that  they can receive from Christ, 
\v 9 and to enable everyone to understand clearly how God accomplished what he planned. God, who created everything, has now revealed this message, which he never revealed to anyone before. 
\v 10  What he planned was that all believers of spiritual beings in heaven that what God had planned is wise in every way. 
\v 11 That is what God had always planned, and it is what he accomplished by what our Lord Jesus  has done. 
\v 12 Because of what he has done and because of our relationship with him, when we pray we can approach God confidently and without being afraid. 
\v 13 So I ask that you do not be discouraged because of my suffering many things for you  here in prison. You should feel honored that I am  willing to suffer  these things for your sake.
\s Ephesians 3:14-21
\sr I pray that God's Spirit will empower you, that you may experience how great is Christ's love to you, and that God may make you all that he intends for you to be.
\p
\v 14 Because  God has done all this for you, I kneel  and pray  to  God our Father. 
\v 15 He is the one who is  like a father of all  the believers who are now in heaven and those who are still on the earth. 
\v 16 I pray that, using his unlimited resources, he will cause you to be strengthened by his Spirit  with all  God's power. 
\v 17 That is, I pray that because of your trusting in Christ, his  Spirit may live in your inner beings, you, 
\v 18 along with all other believers, may be able to know how very . 
\v 19 I want you to experience how very deeply he loves us, even though it is not possible for us to understand fully  how much he loves us. And I pray that God will enable you to be filled with  all the  qualities of his character that he himself has.
\p
\v 20  God is able to do much greater things his power that is working within us. 
\v 21 Because of our relationship with Christ Jesus, may all believers
