\c 4
\s Ephesians 4:1-16
\sr Conduct your lives in a way that shows that you are God's people; do all that you can to keep all the believers united; and remember that Christ has given various abilities to each of his people, in order that they may be united and grow spiritually and become like Christ.
\p
\v 1 Therefore I, who am in prison because I serve the Lord Jesus, urge you, whom God has chosen to be his people, to do these things: Conduct your lives as God's people should.
\v 2 Always be humble, and do not demand your own rights. Be patient with each other, and, because you love each other, endure each other's irritating behavior.
\v 3 God's Spirit has caused you to be united with one another, so do all that you can to remain united with one another by acting peacefully toward each other.
\v 4 All we believers form just one group  in order that you all might confidently keep expecting oneset of good things as a result of his choosing you.
\v 5 There is only one Lord, Jesus Christ. We all believe the same teaching about him. It was to show that we belong to him alone that we had someone baptize us.
\v 6 There is one God, who is the spiritual Father of all us believers. He rules over all his people; he enables all his people to do powerful things ; and his Spirit lives in all his people.
\p
\v 7 Christ has generously given to each one of us spiritual gifts, just like he decided to give them.
\v 8 When Christ gave gifts to his people, it was similar to what the Psalmist said about God receiving tribute money from those whom he had conquered,
\q When he ascended to heaven, he gave as gifts to people the things that he had taken from the people whom he captured:
\p
\v 9 The words 'he ascended' certainly imply that Christ had also previously descended to the earth.
\v 10 Christ, who descended to earth, is also the one who ascended to the most exalted position in heaven, in order that he might show his power  throughout the universe.
\v 11 He appointed some people to be apostles. He appointed some people to be prophets. He appointed some people to lead and teach the congregations.
\v 12 He appointed all of these in order that they would prepare God's people to do God's work, so that all the people who belong to Christ  might become spiritually mature.
\v 13 He wants all of us believers to be united because we all believe in the Son of God and because we all know him. He wants us to become spiritually mature; that is, he wants us to be perfect.
\v 14 Then we will no longer be spiritually immature, like  to deceive, Or: influence us.
\v 15 Instead, by loving others as we behave according to God's truth  his body.
\v 16 He enables all those who belong to him to mature spiritually. Specifically, they will become mature spiritually by loving each other and by each of them doing the work that God wants them to do. That is like .
\s Ephesians 4:17-32
\sr You should conduct yourselves in a way that matches your new character; so stop doing the harmful things that unbelievers do, and do good to one another.
\p
\v 17 By the authority of the Lord Jesus, I strongly affirm controls how they conduct their lives.
\v 18 They are unable to think clearly  refuse to listen to his message, they do not have the eternal life that God gives us.
\v 19 The result is that because they have ceased to care the shameful things that their bodies want, and they commit all kinds of immoral acts, and continually are eager to do more of those things.
\p
\v 20 But when you learned about Christ, you did not learn to behave like that.
\v 21 I am sure that you heard the message about Christ, and because you are people who have a close relationship with him, you were taught  the true way to live that Jesus showed us.
\v 22 You were taught  your evil nature; that is, that you must not behave like you formerly did. Your evil desires deceived you, making you want to do evil things and causing you to think that doing that was good for you; and your thinking like that was destroying you spiritually.
\v 23 Others taught you that instead, you must let God's Spirit change the way you think,
\v 24 and that you must start being  devout.
\p
\v 25 Therefore, quit lying to one another. Instead, because we all belong to just one group of believers, speak truthfully to each other.
\v 26 If you get angry, do not sin as a result of getting angry. Before the end of the day , stop being angry
\v 27 and by doing that, do not allow the devil to make you do evil.
\v 28 Those who have been stealing must not steal any longer. Instead, they should work hard to earn their living, in order that they may have something to give to those who are needy.
\v 29 Do not use  for helping people when they need help, things that will help spiritually the people that you talk to.
\v 30 God has given you his Spirit to confirm.
\v 31 Do not be resentful at all towards others. Do not become angry in any way. Never shout abusively at others. Never slander others. Never act maliciously, Or: be mean in any way.
\v 32 Be kind to one another. Act mercifully toward each other. Forgive each other, just like God forgave you because of what Christ has done.
