\c 2
\s 1 Thessalonians 2:1-12
\sr You and God know that it is true that we behaved in a very virtuous, upright, and irreproachable manner toward you. You know also that we continually exhorted, encouraged, and urged that you behave in the way that God's people should.
\p
\v 1 My fellow believers, you know that our time with you was very worthwhile.
\v 2 Although people in Philippi city previously mistreated us.
\v 3 When we exhorted you to obey God's message, we did not speak to you an untrue message. Instead, we spoke a true message. We do not want to get something for ourselves by immoral means. We do not try to deceive you or other people.
\v 4 On the contrary, we tell God's message because he trusted us to do that, because he examined us and considered usto be acceptable to tell people the message about Christ. As we teach people, we do not say what they like to hear. Instead, we say what God wants us to say, because he examines everything that we think and what we desire.
\v 5 We never flattered you. God knows that this is true!
\v 6 We never tried to get people to honor us,
\v 7 although we could have demanded that you should honor.
\v 8 So, because we love you, we were delighted to personally tell you the good message that God gave us. But also we were delighted to lovingly do all that we could do to help you .
\v 9 My fellow believers, you remember that we worked very hard  while we were with you. We worked during the day and also at night in order that we would not have to ask any one of you to give us what we needed, while we proclaimed to you the good message that God gave us.
\v 10 You know that it is true, and God knows that it is true, that we conducted our lives in a very pure, right, and irreproachable manner toward you believers.
\v 11 You know also that we lovingly behaved.
\v 12 Specifically, we kept strongly exhorting.
\s 1 Thessalonians 2:13-16
\sr We continually thank God also that you accepted as true a message that does not originate from human beings. Instead, you accepted as true the message that originates from God, and the result was that people caused you to suffer as Christ did.
\p
\v 13 We continually thank God also because when you heard the message that we told to you, you accepted it as the true message, the good message that God gave to us. We did not invent it. We also thank God that he is changing your lives because you trust this message .
\v 14 My fellow believers, we know that you sincerely believed the message from God, because the manner in which you acted was just like the manner in which the congregations in Judea acted. They also worship God, and they have a close relationship with Christ Jesus. Specifically, you endured it when your own countrymen mistreated you because you believe the message from God, in the same manner that those Jewish believers in Judea endured it when the Jews who do not believe in Christ mistreated them.
\v 15 Unbelieving Jews are the ones whom God considers guilty for killing the Lord Jesus, as well as for killing many prophets. Other unbelieving Jews forced us to leave many towns. They really make God angry; and they are opposed to what is best for all human beings!
\v 16 Specifically, when we tell the good message to non-Jewish people in order that they can be saved , at last, for all their sins!
\s 1 Thessalonians 2:17-20
\sr It is because of you that we are pleased and joyful. So when people forced Silas, Timothy and me to be separated from you for a short time, we strongly desired to be with you.
\p
\v 17 My fellow believers, when for a short time . Although we were far away from you, we were still emotionally concerned about you, and we strongly desired to be present with you.
\v 18 You can know that we wanted to return to you. Indeed I, Paul, tried to return twice . But we did not return because each time Satan prevented us from returning.
\v 19 We were strongly desiring to be with you, because truly you  when our Lord Jesus examines what we all have done, at the time when he comes back to earth!
\v 20 Indeed, it is because of you that even now we are pleased and are joyful!
