\c 1
\p
\v 1 In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of Jehovah to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son
of Iddo, the prophet, saying,
\v 2 Jehovah was sore displeased with your fathers.
\v 3 Therefore say you to them, Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Return to me, says Jehovah of hosts, and I will return to
you, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 4 Be you not as your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried, saying, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Return you now from
your evil ways, and from your evil doings: but they did not hear, nor listen to me, says Jehovah.
\v 5 Your fathers, where are they? and the prophets, do they live for ever?
\v 6 But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? and they
turned and said, Like as Jehovah of hosts thought to do to us, according to our ways, and according to our doings, so has he
dealt with us.
\p
\v 7 Upon the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, came the
word of Jehovah to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying,
\v 8 I saw in the night, and, behold, a man riding upon a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle-trees that were in the
bottom; and behind him there were horses, red, sorrel, and white.
\v 9 Then said I, O my lord, what are these? And the angel that talked with me said to me, I will show you what these are.
\v 10 And the man that stood among the myrtle-trees answered and said, These are they whom Jehovah has sent to walk to and fro
through the earth.
\v 11 And they answered the angel of Jehovah that stood among the myrtle-trees, and said, We have walked to and fro through the
earth, and, behold, all the earth sits still, and is at rest.
\p
\v 12 Then the angel of Jehovah answered and said, O Jehovah of hosts, how long will you not have mercy on Jerusalem and on
the cities of Judah, against which you have had indignation these threescore and ten years?
\v 13 And Jehovah answered the angel that talked with me with good words,
even comfortable words.
\v 14 So the angel that talked with me said to me, Cry thou, saying, Thus says Jehovah of hosts: I am jealous for Jerusalem
and for Zion with a great jealousy.
\v 15 And I am very sore displeased with the nations that are at ease; for I was but a little displeased, and they helped
forward the affliction.
\v 16 Therefore thus says Jehovah: I am returned to Jerusalem with mercies; my house shall be built in it, says Jehovah of
hosts, and a line shall be stretched forth over Jerusalem.
\v 17 Cry yet again, saying, Thus says Jehovah of hosts: My cities shall yet overflow with prosperity; and Jehovah shall yet
comfort Zion, and shall yet choose Jerusalem.
\p
\v 18 And I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, four horns.
\v 19 And I said to the angel that talked with me, What are these? And he answered me, These are the horns which have
scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.
\v 20 And Jehovah showed me four smiths.
\v 21 Then said I, What come these to do? And he spake, saying, These are the horns which scattered Judah, so that no man did
lift up his head; but these are come to terrify them, to cast down the horns of the nations, which lifted up their horn against
the land of Judah to scatter it.