\c 7
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Darius, that the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah in the fourth
day of the ninth month, even in Chislev.
\v 2 Now they of Beth-el had sent Sharezer and Regem-melech, and their men, to entreat the favor of Jehovah,
\v 3 and to speak to the priests of the house of Jehovah of hosts, and to the prophets, saying, Should I weep in
the fifth month, separating myself, as I have done these so many years?
\v 4 Then came the word of Jehovah of hosts to me, saying,
\v 5 Speak to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and in the
seventh month, even these seventy youars, did you at all fast to me, even to me?
\v 6 And when you eat, and when you drink, do not you eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves?
\v 7 Should you not hear the words which Jehovah cried by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited
and in prosperity, and the cities thereof round about her, and the South and the lowland were inhabited?
\p
\v 8 And the word of Jehovah came to Zechariah, saying,
\v 9 Thus has Jehovah of hosts spoken, saying, Execute true judgment, and show kindness and compassion every man to his
brother;
\v 10 and oppress not the widow, nor the fatherless, the sojourner, nor the poor; and let none of you devise evil against his
brother in your heart.
\v 11 But they refused to hearken, and pulled away the shoulder, and stopped their ears, that they might not hear.
\v 12 Yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone, lest they should hear the law, and the words which Jehovah of hosts had
sent by his Spirit by the former prophets: therefore there came great wrath from Jehovah of hosts.
\v 13 And it is come to pass that, as he cried, and they would not hear, so they shall cry, and I will not hear, said Jehovah
of hosts;
\v 14 but I will scatter them with a whirlwind among all the nations which they have not known. Thus the land was desolate
after them, so that no man passed through nor returned: for they laid the pleasant land desolate.