\c 8
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah of hosts came to me, saying,
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with great wrath.
\v 3 Thus says Jehovah: I am returned to Zion, and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and Jerusalem shall be called The
city of truth; and the mountain of Jehovah of hosts, The holy mountain.
\v 4 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: There shall yet old men and old women dwell in the streets of Jerusalem, every man with his
staff in his hand for very age.
\v 5 And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets thereof.
\v 6 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: If it be marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days, should it also
be marvelous in mine eyes? says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 7 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will save my people from the east country, and from the west country;
\v 8 and I will bring them, and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem; and they shall be my people, and I will be their
God, in truth and in righteousness.
\p
\v 9 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Let your hands be strong, you that hear in these days these words from the mouth of the
prophets that were in the day that the foundation of the house of Jehovah of hosts was laid, even the temple, that it might be
built.
\v 10 For before those days there was no hire for man, nor any hire for beast; neither was there any peace to him that went out
or came in, because of the adversary: for I set all men every one against his neighbor.
\v 11 But now I will not be to the remnant of this people as in the former days, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 12 For there shall be the seed of peace; the vine shall give its fruit, and the ground shall give its increase,
and the heavens shall give their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to inherit all these things.
\v 13 And it shall come to pass that, as you were a curse among the nations, O house of Judah and house of Israel, so will I
save you, and you shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong.
\p
\v 14 For thus says Jehovah of hosts: As I thought to do evil to you, when your fathers provoked me to wrath, says Jehovah
of hosts, and I repented not;
\v 15 so again have I thought in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah: fear you not.
\v 16 These are the things that you shall do: speak you every man the truth with his neighbor; execute the judgment of truth and
peace in your gates;
\v 17 and let none of you devise evil in your hearts against his neighbor; and love no false oath: for all these are things
that I hate, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 18 And the word of Jehovah of hosts came to me, saying,
\v 19 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: The fast of the fourth month, and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the
seventh, and the fast of the tenth, shall be to the house of Judah joy and gladness, and cheerful feasts; therefore love truth
and peace.
\v 20 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: It shall yet come to
pass, that there shall come peoples, and the inhabitants of many cities;
\v 21 and the inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go speedily to entreat the favor of
Jehovah, and to seek Jehovah of hosts: I will go also.
\v 22 Yea, many peoples and strong nations shall come to seek Jehovah of hosts in Jerusalem, and to entreat the favor of
Jehovah.
\v 23 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: In those days it shall come to
pass, that ten men shall take hold, out of all the languages of the nations, they shall take hold of the skirt of him that
is a Jew, saying, We will go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.