\c 14
\p
\v 1 Behold, a day of Jehovah cometh, when your spoil shall be divided in the midst of thee.
\v 2 For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle; and the city shall be taken, and the houses rifled, and the
women ravished; and half of the city shall go forth into captivity, and the residue of the people shall not be cut off from the
city.
\v 3 Then shall Jehovah go forth, and fight against those nations, as when he fought in the day of battle.
\v 4 And his feet shall stand in that day upon the mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east; and the mount of
Olives shall be cleft in the midst thereof toward the east and toward the west,
and there shall be a very great valley; and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, and half of it
toward the south.
\v 5 And you shall flee by the valley of my mountains; for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azel; youa, you shall
flee, like as you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah; and Jehovah my God shall come, and all
the holy ones with thee.
\v 6 And it shall come to pass in that day, that there shall not be light; the bright ones shall withdraw themselves:
\v 7 but it shall be one day which is known to Jehovah; not day, and not night; but it shall come to pass, that at evening
time there shall be light.
\v 8 And it shall come to pass in that day, that living waters shall go out from Jerusalem; half of them toward the eastern
sea, and half of them toward the western sea: in summer and in winter shall it be.
\p
\v 9 And Jehovah shall be King over all the earth: in that day shall Jehovah be one, and his name one.
\v 10 All the land shall be made like the Arabah, from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem; and she shall be lifted up, and shall
dwell in her place, from Benjamin’s gate to the place of the first gate, to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananel
to the king’s wine-presses.
\v 11 And men shall dwell therein, and there shall be no more curse; but Jerusalem shall dwell safely.
\p
\v 12 And this shall be the plague wherewith Jehovah will strike all the peoples that have warred against Jerusalem: their flesh
shall consume away while they stand upon their feet, and their eyes shall consume away in their sockets, and their tongue shall
consume away in their mouth.
\v 13 And it shall come to pass in that day, that a great tumult from Jehovah shall be among them; and they shall lay hold
every one on the hand of his neighbor, and his hand shall rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
\v 14 And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the nations round about shall be gathered together, gold,
and silver, and apparel, in great abundance.
\v 15 And so shall be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the camel, and of the ass, and of all the beasts that shall be
in those camps, as that plague.
\p
\v 16 And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of all the nations that came against Jerusalem shall go up from
year to year to worship the King, Jehovah of hosts, and to keep the feast of tabernacles.
\v 17 And it shall be, that whoso of all the families of the earth goes not up to Jerusalem to worship the King,
Jehovah of hosts, upon them there shall be no rain.
\v 18 And if the family of Egypt go not up, and come not, neither
shall it be upon them; there shall be the plague wherewith Jehovah will strike the nations that go not up to keep the
feast of tabernacles.
\v 19 This shall be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations that go not up to keep the feast of
tabernacles.
\v 20 In that day shall there be upon the bells of the horses, HOLY UNTO JEHOVAH; and the pots in Jehovah’s house shall be like
the bowls before the altar.
\v 21 Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holy to Jehovah of hosts; and all they that sacrifice shall come and
take of them, and boil therein: and in that day there shall be no more a Canaanite in the house of Jehovah of hosts.