\c 1
\p
\v 1 The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz,
and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
\p
\v 2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; for Jehovah has spoken: I have nourished and brought up children, and they have
rebelled against me.
\v 3 The ox knows his owner, and the ass his master’s crib; but
Israel does not know, my people does not consider.
\v 4 Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evil-doers, children that deal corruptly! they have forsaken
Jehovah, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are estranged
and gone backward.
\v 5 Why will you be still stricken, that you revolt more and more? the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
\v 6 From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness in it;
but wounds, and bruises, and fresh stripes: they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with oil.
\v 7 Your country is desolate; your cities are burned with fire; your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is
desolate, as overthrown by strangers.
\v 8 And the daughter of Zion is left as a booth in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city.
\v 9 Except Jehovah of hosts had left to us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, we should have been like to
Gomorrah.
\p
\v 10 Hear the word of Jehovah, you rulers of Sodom; give ear to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah.
\v 11 What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says Jehovah: I have had enough of the burnt offerings of rams, and
the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he-goats.
\v 12 When you come to appear before me, who has required this at your hand, to trample my courts?
\v 13 Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination to me; new moon and sabbath, the calling of assemblies,—I
cannot away with iniquity and the solemn meeting.
\v 14 Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth; they are a trouble to me; I am weary of bearing them.
\v 15 And when you spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyous from you; youa, when you make many prayours, I will not hear:
your hands are full of blood.
\v 16 Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil;
\v 17 learn to do well; seek justice, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.
\p
\v 18 Come now, and let us reason together, says Jehovah: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow;
though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.
\v 19 If you be willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land:
\v 20 but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured with the sword; for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken it.
\p
\v 21 How is the faithful city become a harlot! she that was full of justice! righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers.
\v 22 Your silver is become dross, your wine mixed with water.
\v 23 Your princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves; every one loves bribes, and follows after rewards: they judge
not the fatherless, neither does the cause of the widow come to them.
\p
\v 24 Therefore says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge
me of mine enemies;
\v 25 and I will turn my hand upon thee, and thoroughly purge away your dross, and will take away all your tin;
\v 26 and I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning: afterward you shall be called
The city of righteousness, a faithful town.
\v 27 Zion shall be redeemed with justice, and her converts with righteousness.
\v 28 But the destruction of transgressors and sinners shall be together, and they that forsake Jehovah shall be consumed.
\v 29 For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired, and you shall be confounded for the gardens that you have
chosen.
\v 30 For you shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that has no water.
\v 31 And the strong shall be as tow, and his work as a spark; and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.