\c 5
\p
\v 1 Let me sing for my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard. My wellbeloved had a vineyard in a very
fruitful hill:
\v 2 and he digged it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the
midst of it, and also hewed out a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild
grapes.
\p
\v 3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, between me and my vineyard.
\v 4 What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring
forth grapes, brought it forth wild grapes?
\v 5 And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up; I
will break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down:
\v 6 and I will lay it waste; it shall not be pruned nor hoed; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I will also command
the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.
\v 7 For the vineyard of Jehovah of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for
justice, but, behold, oppression; for righteousness, but, behold, a cry.
\p
\v 8 Woe to them that join house to house, that lay field to field, till there be no room, and you be made to dwell alone in
the midst of the land!
\v 9 In mine ears says Jehovah of hosts, Of a truth many houses shall be desolate, even great and fair, without
inhabitant.
\v 10 For ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and a homer of seed shall yield
but an ephah.
\v 11 Woe to them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink; that wait late into the night, till
wine inflame them!
\v 12 And the harp and the lute, the tabret and the pipe, and wine, are
in their feasts; but they regard not the work of Jehovah, neither have they considered the operation of his hands.
\p
\v 13 Therefore my people are gone into captivity for lack of knowledge; and their honorable men are famished, and their
multitude are parched with thirst.
\v 14 Therefore Sheol has enlarged its desire, and opened its mouth without measure; and their glory, and their multitude, and
their pomp, and he that rejoices among them, descend into it.
\v 15 And the mean man is bowed down, and the great man is humbled, and the eyes of the lofty are humbled:
\v 16 but Jehovah of hosts is exalted in justice, and God the Holy One is sanctified in righteousness.
\v 17 Then shall the lambs feed as in their pasture, and the waste places of the fat ones shall wanderers eat.
\p
\v 18 Woe to them that draw iniquity with cords of falsehood, and sin as it were with a cart rope;
\v 19 that say, Let him make speed, let him hasten his work, that we may see it; and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel
draw near and come, that we may know it!
\v 20 Woe to them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter
for sweet, and sweet for bitter!
\v 21 Woe to them that are wise in their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight!
\v 22 Woe to them that are mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink;
\v 23 that justify the wicked for a bribe, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him!
\p
\v 24 Therefore as the tongue of fire devours the stubble, and as the dry grass sinketh down in the flame, so their root
shall be as rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust; because they have rejected the law of Jehovah of hosts, and
despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.
\v 25 Therefore is the anger of Jehovah kindled against his people, and he has stretched forth his hand against them, and has
struck them; and the mountains tremble, and their dead bodies are as refuse in the midst of the streets. For all this his
anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
\p
\v 26 And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will hiss for them from the end of the earth; and, behold,
they shall come with speed swiftly.
\v 27 None shall be weary nor stumble among them; none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins be
loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken:
\v 28 whose arrows are sharp, and all their bows bent; their horses’ hoofs shall be accounted as flint, and their wheels as a
whirlwind:
\v 29 their roaring shall be like a lioness, they shall roar like young lions; yea, they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey,
and carry it away safe, and there shall be none to deliver.
\v 30 And they shall roar against them in that day like the roaring of the sea: and if one look to the land, behold, darkness
and distress; and the light is darkened in the clouds thereof.