\c 8
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to me, Take you a great tablet, and write upon it with the pen of a man, For Maher-shalal-hash-baz;
\v 2 and I will take to me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.
\v 3 And I went to the prophetess; and she conceived, and bare a son. Then said Jehovah to me, Call his name
Maher-shalal-hash-baz.
\v 4 For before the child shall have knowledge to cry, My father, and, My mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of
Samaria shall be carried away before the king of Assyria.
\p
\v 5 And Jehovah spoke to me yet again, saying,
\v 6 Forasmuch as this people have refused the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah’s son;
\v 7 now therefore, behold, the Lord brings up upon them the waters of the River, strong and many,
even the king of Assyria and all his glory: and it shall come up over all its channels, and go over all its banks;
\v 8 and it shall sweep onward into Judah; it shall overflow and pass through; it shall reach even to the neck; and the
stretching out of its wings shall fill the breadth of your land, O Immanuel.
\p
\v 9 Make an uproar, O you peoples, and be broken in pieces; and give ear, all you of far countries: gird yourselves, and be
broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and be broken in pieces.
\v 10 Take counsel together, and it shall be brought to nought; speak the word, and it shall not stand: for God is with us.
\v 11 For Jehovah spoke thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying,
\v 12 Say you not, A conspiracy, concerning all whereof this people shall say, A conspiracy; neither fear you their fear, nor be
in dread thereof.
\v 13 Jehovah of hosts, him shall you sanctify; and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.
\v 14 And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offense to both the houses of Israel, for
a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
\v 15 And many shall stumble thereon, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.
\p
\v 16 Bind you up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.
\v 17 And I will wait for Jehovah, that hides his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him.
\v 18 Behold, I and the children whom Jehovah has given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from Jehovah of hosts, who
lives in mount Zion.
\p
\v 19 And when they shall say to you, Seek to them that have familiar spirits and to the wizards, that chirp and that
mutter: should not a people seek to their God? on behalf of the living
should they seek to the dead?
\v 20 To the law and to the testimony! if they speak not according to this word, surely there is no morning for them.
\v 21 And they shall pass through it, sore distressed and hungry; and it shall come to pass that, when they shall be hungry,
they shall fret themselves, and curse by their king and by their God, and turn their faces upward:
\v 22 and they shall look to the earth, and, behold, distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish; and into thick darkness
they shall be driven away.