\c 9
\p
\v 1 But there shall be no gloom to her that was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun
and the land of Naphtali; but in the latter time has he made it glorious, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of
the nations.
\v 2 The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: they that lived in the land of the shadow of death, upon them
has the light shined.
\v 3 You have multiplied the nation, you have increased their joy: they joy before you according to the joy in harvest, as
men rejoice when they divide the spoil.
\v 4 For the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken as in the day of
Midian.
\v 5 For all the armor of the armed man in the tumult, and the garments rolled in blood, shall be for burning, for fuel of
fire.
\v 6 For to us a child is born, to us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be
called Wonderful, Counsellor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
\v 7 Of the increase of his government and of peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to
establish it, and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from henceforth even for ever. The zeal of Jehovah of hosts
will perform this.
\p
\v 8 The Lord sent a word into Jacob, and it has lighted upon Israel.
\v 9 And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inhabitant of Samaria, that say in pride and in stoutness of
heart,
\v 10 The bricks are fallen, but we will build with hewn stone; the sycomores are cut down, but we will put cedars in their
place.
\v 11 Therefore Jehovah will set up on high against him the adversaries of Rezin, and will stir up his enemies,
\v 12 the Syrians before, and the Philistines behind; and they shall devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger is
not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
\p
\v 13 Yet the people have not turned to him that struck them, neither have they sought Jehovah of hosts.
\v 14 Therefore Jehovah will cut off from Israel head and tail, palm-branch and rush, in one day.
\v 15 The elder and the honorable man, he is the head; and the prophet that teaches lies, he is the tail.
\v 16 For they that lead this people cause them to err; and they that are led of them are destroyed.
\v 17 Therefore the Lord will not rejoice over their young men, neither will he have compassion on their fatherless and widows;
for every one is profane and an evil-doer, and every mouth speaks folly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his
hand is stretched out still.
\p
\v 18 For wickedness burns as the fire; it devours the briers and thorns; yea, it kindles in the thickets of the forest,
and they roll upward in a column of smoke.
\v 19 Through the wrath of Jehovah of hosts is the land burnt up; and the people are as the fuel of fire: no man spareth his
brother.
\v 20 And one shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry; and he shall eat on the left hand, and they shall not be
satisfied: they shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm:
\v 21 Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh; and they together shall be against Judah. For all this his anger is not turned
away, but his hand is stretched out still.