\c 14
\p
\v 1 For Jehovah will have compassion on Jacob, and will yet choose Israel, and set them in their own land: and the sojourner
shall join himself with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.
\v 2 And the peoples shall take them, and bring them to their place; and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of
Jehovah for servants and for handmaids: and they shall take them captive whose captives they were; and they shall rule over
their oppressors.
\p
\v 3 And it shall come to pass in the day that Jehovah shall give you rest from your sorrow, and from your trouble, and from the
hard service wherein you was made to serve,
\v 4 that you shall take up this parable against the king of Babylon, and say, How has the oppressor ceased! the golden city
ceased!
\v 5 Jehovah has broken the staff of the wicked, the sceptre of the rulers;
\v 6 that struck the peoples in wrath with a continual stroke, that ruled the nations in anger, with a persecution that none
restrained.
\v 7 The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they break forth into singing.
\v 8 Yea, the fir-trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon,
saying, Since you are laid low, no hewer is come up against us.
\v 9 Sheol from beneath is moved for you to meet you at your coming; it stirreth up the dead for you, even all the chief ones
of the earth; it has raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.
\v 10 All they shall answer and say to thee, Are you also become weak as we? are you become like to us?
\v 11 Your pomp is brought down to Sheol, and the noise of your viols: the worm is spread under thee, and worms cover
thee.
\p
\v 12 How are you fallen from heaven, O day-star, son of the morning! how are you cut down to the ground, that did lay low
the nations!
\v 13 And you said in your heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God; and I will sit
upon the mount of congregation, in the uttermost parts of the north;
\v 14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.
\v 15 Yet you shall be brought down to Sheol, to the uttermost parts of the pit.
\v 16 They that see you shall gaze at you, they shall consider you,
saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms;
\v 17 that made the world as a wilderness, and overthrew the cities thereof; that let not loose his prisoners to their home?
\v 18 All the kings of the nations, all of them, sleep in glory, every one in his own house.
\v 19 But you are cast forth away from your sepulchre like an abominable branch, clothed with the slain, that are thrust
through with the sword, that go down to the stones of the pit; as a dead body trodden under foot.
\v 20 You shall not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land, you have slain your people; the seed
of evil-doers shall not be named for ever.
\p
\v 21 Prepare you slaughter for his children for the iniquity of their fathers, that they rise not up, and possess the earth,
and fill the face of the world with cities.
\v 22 And I will rise up against them, says Jehovah of hosts, and cut off from Babylon name and remnant, and son and son’s
son, says Jehovah.
\v 23 I will also make it a possession for the porcupine, and pools of water: and I will sweep it with the besom of
destruction, says Jehovah of hosts.
\p
\v 24 Jehovah of hosts has sworn, saying, Surely, as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so
shall it stand:
\v 25 that I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains tread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from
off them, and his burden depart from off their shoulder.
\v 26 This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth; and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the
nations.
\v 27 For Jehovah of hosts has purposed, and who shall annul it? and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?
\b
\p
\v 28 In the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.
\p
\v 29 Rejoice not, O Philistia, all of you, because the rod that struck you is broken; for out of the serpent’s root shall
come forth an adder, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.
\v 30 And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall lie down in safety; and I will kill your root with famine,
and your remnant shall be slain.
\v 31 Howl, O gate; cry, O city; you are melted away, O Philistia, all of thee; for there comes a smoke out of the north, and
there is no straggler in his ranks.
\p
\v 32 What then shall one answer the messengers of the nation? That Jehovah has founded Zion, and in her shall the afflicted
of his people take refuge.