\c 16
\p
\v 1 Send you the lambs for the ruler of the land from Selah to the wilderness, to the mount of the daughter of Zion.
\v 2 For it shall be that, as wandering birds, as a scattered nest, so shall the daughters of Moab be at the fords of the
Arnon.
\v 3 Give counsel, execute justice; make your shade as the night in the midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; betray not the
fugitive.
\v 4 Let mine outcasts dwell with thee; as for Moab, be you a covert to him from the face of the destroyer. For the
extortioner is brought to nought, destruction ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.
\v 5 And a throne shall be established in lovingkindness; and one shall sit thereon in truth, in the tent of David, judging,
and seeking justice, and swift to do righteousness.
\p
\v 6 We have heard of the pride of Moab, that he is very proud; even of his arrogancy, and his pride, and his wrath;
his boastings are nought.
\v 7 Therefore shall Moab wail for Moab, every one shall wail: for the raisin-cakes of Kir-hareseth shall you mourn, utterly
stricken.
\v 8 For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah; the lords of the nations have broken down the choice
branches thereof, which reached even to Jazer, which wandered into the wilderness; its shoots were spread abroad, they passed
over the sea.
\v 9 Therefore I will weep with the weeping of Jazer for the vine of Sibmah; I will water you with my tears, O Heshbon, and
Elealeh: for upon your summer fruits and upon your harvest the battle shout is fallen.
\v 10 And gladness is taken away, and joy out of the fruitful field; and in the vineyards there shall be no singing, neither
joyful noise: no treader shall tread out wine in the presses; I have made the
vintage shout to cease.
\v 11 Wherefore my heart soundeth like a harp for Moab, and mine inward parts for Kir-heres.
\v 12 And it shall come to pass, when Moab presenteth himself, when he wearieth himself upon the high place, and shall come to
his sanctuary to pray, that he shall not prevail.
\p
\v 13 This is the word that Jehovah spoke concerning Moab in time past.
\v 14 But now Jehovah has spoken, saying, Within three years, as the years of a hireling, the glory of Moab shall be brought
into contempt, with all his great multitude; and the remnant shall be very small and of no account.