\c 17
\p
\v 1 The burden of Damascus.
\p Behold, Damascus is taken away from being a city, and it shall be a ruinous heap.
\v 2 The cities of Aroer are forsaken; they shall be for flocks, which shall lie down, and none shall make them afraid.
\v 3 And the fortress shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom from Damascus, and the remnant of Syria; they shall be as the
glory of the children of Israel, says Jehovah of hosts.
\p
\v 4 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the glory of Jacob shall be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh shall wax
lean.
\v 5 And it shall be as when the harvestman gathers the standing grain, and his arm reapeth the ears; yea, it shall be as
when one gleans ears in the valley of Rephaim.
\v 6 Yet there shall be left therein gleanings, as the shaking of an olive-tree, two or three berries in the top of the
uppermost bough, four or five in the outmost branches of a fruitful tree, says Jehovah, the God of Israel.
\v 7 In that day shall men look to their Maker, and their eyes shall have respect to the Holy One of Israel.
\v 8 And they shall not look to the altars, the work of their hands; neither shall they have respect to that which their
fingers have made, either the Asherim, or the sun-images.
\v 9 In that day shall their strong cities be as the forsaken places in the wood and on the mountain top, which were forsaken
from before the children of Israel; and it shall be a desolation.
\v 10 For you have forgotten the God of your salvation, and have not been mindful of the rock of your strength; therefore you
plantest pleasant plants, and set it with strange slips.
\v 11 In the day of your planting you hedgest it in, and in the morning you make your seed to blossom; but the harvest fleeth
away in the day of grief and of desperate sorrow.
\p
\v 12 Ah, the uproar of many peoples, that roar like the roaring of the seas; and the rushing of nations, that rush like the
rushing of mighty waters!
\v 13 The nations shall rush like the rushing of many waters: but he shall rebuke them, and they shall flee far off, and shall
be chased as the chaff of the mountains before the wind, and like the whirling dust before the storm.
\v 14 At eventide, behold, terror; and before the morning they are not. This is the portion of them that despoil us,
and the lot of them that rob us.