\c 22
\p
\v 1 The burden of the valley of vision.
\p What aileth you now, that you are wholly gone up to the housetops?
\v 2 O you that are full of shoutings, a tumultuous city, a joyous town; your slain are not slain with the sword, neither are
they dead in battle.
\v 3 All your rulers fled away together, they were bound by the archers; all that were found of you were bound together; they
fled afar off.
\v 4 Therefore said I, Look away from me, I will weep bitterly; labor not to comfort me for the destruction of the daughter of
my people.
\p
\v 5 For it is a day of discomfiture, and of treading down, and of perplexity, from the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, in the valley
of vision; a breaking down of the walls, and a crying to the mountains.
\v 6 And Elam bare the quiver, with chariots of men and horsemen; and Kir uncovered the shield.
\v 7 And it came to pass, that your choicest valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen set themselves in array at the
gate.
\v 8 And he took away the covering of Judah; and you did look in that day to the armor in the house of the forest.
\v 9 And you saw the breaches of the city of David, that they were many; and you gathered together the waters of the lower pool;
\v 10 and you numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and you brake down the houses to fortify the wall;
\v 11 you made also a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool. But you looked not to him that had done
this, neither had you respect to him that purposed it long ago.
\p
\v 12 And in that day did the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, call to weeping, and to mourning, and to baldness, and to girding with
sackcloth:
\v 13 and, behold, joy and gladness, slaying oxen and killing sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine: Let us eat and drink, for
to-morrow we shall die.
\v 14 And Jehovah of hosts revealed himself in mine ears, Surely this iniquity shall not be forgiven you till you die, says the
Lord, Jehovah of hosts.
\b
\p
\v 15 Thus says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, Go, get you to this treasurer, even to Shebna, who is over the house,
and say,
\v 16 What do you here? and whom have you here, that you have hewed you out here a sepulchre? hewing him out a sepulchre
on high, graving a habitation for himself in the rock!
\v 17 Behold, Jehovah, like a strong man, will hurl you away violently; yea, he will wrap you up closely.
\v 18 He will surely wind you round and round, and toss you like a ball into a large country; there shall you die,
and there shall be the chariots of your glory, you shame of your lord’s house.
\v 19 And I will thrust you from your office; and from your station shall you be pulled down.
\v 20 And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah:
\v 21 and I will clothe him with your robe, and strengthen him with your girdle, and I will commit your government into his hand;
and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.
\v 22 And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder; and he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall
shut, and none shall open.
\v 23 And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be for a throne of glory to his father’s house.
\v 24 And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father’s house, the offspring and the issue, every small vessel, from
the cups even to all the flagons.
\v 25 In that day, says Jehovah of hosts, shall the nail that was fastened in a sure place give way; and it shall be hewn
down, and fall; and the burden that was upon it shall be cut off; for Jehovah has spoken it.