\c 26
\p
\v 1 In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; salvation will he appoint for walls and
bulwarks.
\v 2 Open you the gates, that the righteous nation which keeps faith may enter in.
\v 3 You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind
is stayed on thee; because he trusts in thee.
\v 4 Trust you in Jehovah for ever; for in Jehovah, even Jehovah, is an everlasting rock.
\v 5 For he has brought down them that dwell on high, the lofty city: he lays it low, he lays it low even to the ground;
he brings it even to the dust.
\v 6 The foot shall tread it down; even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy.
\v 7 The way of the just is uprightness: you that are upright do direct the path of the just.
\p
\v 8 Yea, in the way of your judgments, O Jehovah, have we waited for thee; to your name, even to your memorial
name, is the desire of our soul.
\v 9 With my soul have I desired you in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek you earnestly: for when your
judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
\v 10 Let favor be showed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness will he deal
wrongfully, and will not behold the majesty of Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 Jehovah, your hand is lifted up, yet they see not: but they shall see
your zeal for the people, and be put to shame; yea, fire shall devour your adversaries.
\v 12 Jehovah, you will ordain peace for us; for you have also wrought all our works for us.
\v 13 O Jehovah our God, other lords besides you have had dominion over us; but by you only will we make mention of your name.
\v 14 They are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, they shall not rise: therefore have you
visited and destroyed them, and made all remembrance of them to perish.
\v 15 You have increased the nation, O Jehovah, you have increased the nation; you are glorified; you have enlarged all the
borders of the land.
\p
\v 16 Jehovah, in trouble have they visited thee; they poured out a prayer
when your chastening was upon them.
\v 17 Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain and cries out in her pangs; so we
have been before thee, O Jehovah.
\v 18 We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance
in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
\v 19 Your dead shall live; my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, you that dwell in the dust; for your dew is
as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast forth the dead.
\p
\v 20 Come, my people, enter you into your chambers, and shut your doors about thee: hide yourself for a little moment, until the
indignation be overpast.
\v 21 For, behold, Jehovah comes forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth
also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.