\c 27
\p
\v 1 In that day Jehovah with his hard and great and strong sword will punish leviathan the swift serpent, and leviathan the
crooked serpent; and he will kill the monster that is in the sea.
\p
\v 2 In that day: A vineyard of wine, sing you to it.
\v 3 I Jehovah am its keeper; I will water it every moment: lest any hurt it, I will keep it night and day.
\v 4 Wrath is not in me: would that the briers and thorns were against me in battle! I would march upon them, I would burn them
together.
\v 5 Or else let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me;
yea, let him make peace with me.
\v 6 In days to come shall Jacob take root; Israel shall blossom and bud; and they shall fill the face of the world with fruit.
\p
\v 7 Hath he struck them as he struck those that struck them? or are they slain according to the slaughter of them that were
slain by them?
\v 8 In measure, when you send them away, you do contend with them; he has removed
them with his rough blast in the day of the east wind.
\v 9 Therefore by this shall the iniquity of Jacob be forgiven, and this is all the fruit of taking away his sin: that he
makes all the stones of the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in sunder,
so that the Asherim and the sun-images shall rise no more.
\v 10 For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness: there shall the calf feed,
and there shall he lie down, and consume the branches thereof.
\v 11 When the boughs thereof are withered, they shall be broken off; the women shall come, and set them on fire; for it is a
people of no understanding: therefore he that made them will not have compassion upon them, and he that formed them will show
them no favor.
\p
\v 12 And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah will beat off
his fruit from the flood of the River to the brook of Egypt; and you shall be gathered one by one, O you children of
Israel.
\p
\v 13 And it shall come to pass in that day, that a great trumpet shall be blown; and they shall come that were ready to perish
in the land of Assyria, and they that were outcasts in the land of Egypt; and they shall worship Jehovah in the holy mountain
at Jerusalem.