\c 28
\p
\v 1 Woe to the crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim, and to the fading flower of his glorious beauty, which is on the
head of the fat valley of them that are overcome with wine!
\v 2 Behold, the Lord has a mighty and strong one; as a tempest of hail, a destroying storm, as a tempest of mighty waters
overflowing, will he cast down to the earth with the hand.
\v 3 The crown of pride of the drunkards of Ephraim shall be trodden under foot:
\v 4 and the fading flower of his glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fat valley, shall be as the first-ripe fig
before the summer; which when he that looks upon it seeth, while it is yet in his hand he eats it up.
\v 5 In that day will Jehovah of hosts become a crown of glory, and a diadem of beauty, to the residue of his people;
\v 6 and a spirit of justice to him that sits in judgment, and strength to them that turn back the battle at the gate.
\p
\v 7 And even these reel with wine, and stagger with strong drink; the priest and the prophet reel with strong drink, they are
swallowed up of wine, they stagger with strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble in judgment.
\v 8 For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there
is no place clean.
\p
\v 9 Whom will he teach knowledge? and whom will he make to understand the message? them that are weaned from the milk, and
drawn from the breasts?
\v 10 For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, there a little.
\p
\v 11 Nay, but by men of strange lips and with another tongue will he speak to this people;
\v 12 to whom he said, This is the rest, give you rest to him that is weary; and this is the refreshing: yout they would not
hear.
\v 13 Therefore shall the word of Jehovah be to them precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon
line; here a little, there a little; that they may go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken.
\p
\v 14 Wherefore hear the word of Jehovah, you scoffers, that rule this people that is in Jerusalem:
\v 15 Because you have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol are we at agreement; when the overflowing
scourge shall pass through, it shall not come to us; for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid
ourselves:
\v 16 therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious
corner-stone of sure foundation: he that believes shall not be in haste.
\v 17 And I will make justice the line, and righteousness the plummet; and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and
the waters shall overflow the hiding-place.
\v 18 And your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol shall not stand; when the overflowing
scourge shall pass through, then you shall be trodden down by it.
\v 19 As often as it passes through, it shall take you; for morning by morning shall it pass through, by day and by night: and
it shall be nothing but terror to understand the message.
\v 20 For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it; and the covering narrower than that he can wrap himself
in it.
\v 21 For Jehovah will rise up as in mount Perazim, he will be angry as in the valley of Gibeon; that he may do his work, his
strange work, and bring to pass his act, his strange act.
\v 22 Now therefore be you not scoffers, lest your bonds be made strong; for a decree of destruction have I heard from the Lord,
Jehovah of hosts, upon the whole earth.
\p
\v 23 Give you ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.
\v 24 Doth he that plows to sow plow continually? does he continually
open and harrow his ground?
\v 25 When he has levelled the face thereof, does he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and put in the wheat
in rows, and the barley in the appointed place, and the spelt in the border thereof?
\v 26 For his God does instruct him aright, and does teach him.
\v 27 For the fitches are not threshed with a sharp threshing instrument, neither is a cart wheel turned about upon
the cummin; but the fitches are beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod.
\v 28 Bread grain is ground; for he will not be always threshing it: and though the wheel of his cart and his horses
scatter it, he does not grind it.
\v 29 This also comes forth from Jehovah of hosts, who is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in wisdom.