\c 30
\p
\v 1 Woe to the rebellious children, says Jehovah, that take counsel, but not of me; and that make a league, but not of my
Spirit, that they may add sin to sin,
\v 2 that set out to go down into Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh,
and to take refuge in the shadow of Egypt!
\v 3 Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the refuge in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.
\v 4 For their princes are at Zoan, and their ambassadors are come to Hanes.
\v 5 They shall all be ashamed because of a people that cannot profit them, that are not a help nor profit, but a shame, and
also a reproach.
\p
\v 6 The burden of the beasts of the South.
\p Through the land of trouble and anguish, from whence come the lioness and the lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they
carry their riches upon the shoulders of young asses, and their treasures upon the humps of camels, to a people that shall not
profit them.
\v 7 For Egypt helps in vain, and to no purpose: therefore have I called her Rahab that sits still.
\p
\v 8 Now go, write it before them on a tablet, and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to come for ever and
ever.
\v 9 For it is a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not hear the law of Jehovah;
\v 10 that say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not to us right things, speak to us smooth things,
prophesy deceits,
\v 11 get you out of the way, turn aside out of the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.
\v 12 Wherefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, Because you despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and
rely thereon;
\v 13 therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking comes
suddenly in an instant.
\v 14 And he shall break it as a potter’s vessel is broken, breaking it in pieces without sparing; so that there shall not be
found among the pieces thereof a sherd wherewith to take fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern.
\p
\v 15 For thus said the Lord Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, In returning and rest shall you be saved; in quietness and in
confidence shall be your strength. And you would not:
\v 16 but you said, No, for we will flee upon horses; therefore shall you flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall
they that pursue you be swift.
\v 17 One thousand shall flee at the threat of one; at the threat of five shall you flee: till you be left as a beacon
upon the top of a mountain, and as an ensign on a hill.
\p
\v 18 And therefore will Jehovah wait, that he may be gracious to you; and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have
mercy upon you: for Jehovah is a God of justice; blessed are all they that wait for him.
\v 19 For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem; you shall weep no more; he will surely be gracious to you at the
voice of your cry; when he shall hear, he will answer thee.
\v 20 And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet shall not your teachers be hidden
anymore, but your eyes shall see your teachers;
\v 21 and your ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way, walk you in it; when you turn to the right hand, and
when you turn to the left.
\v 22 And you shall defile the overlaying of your graven images of silver, and the plating of your molten images of gold: you
shall cast them away as an unclean thing; you shall say to it, Get you hence.
\p
\v 23 And he will give the rain for your seed, wherewith you shall sow the ground; and bread of the increase of the ground, and
it shall be fat and plenteous. In that day shall your cattle feed in large pastures;
\v 24 the oxen likewise and the young asses that till the ground shall eat savory provender, which has been winnowed with the
shovel and with the fork.
\v 25 And there shall be upon every lofty mountain, and upon every high hill, brooks
and streams of waters, in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.
\v 26 Moreover the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the
light of seven days, in the day that Jehovah bindeth up the hurt of his people, and heals the stroke of their wound.
\p
\v 27 Behold, the name of Jehovah comes from far, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke: his lips are full of
indignation, and his tongue is as a devouring fire;
\v 28 and his breath is as an overflowing stream, that reaches even to the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of
destruction: and a bridle that causes to err shall be in the jaws of the peoples.
\v 29 You shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goes with a pipe to
come to the mountain of Jehovah, to the Rock of Israel.
\v 30 And Jehovah will cause his glorious voice to be heard, and will show the lighting down of his arm, with the indignation
of his anger, and the flame of a devouring fire, with a blast, and tempest, and hailstones.
\v 31 For through the voice of Jehovah shall the Assyrian be dismayed; with his rod will he strike
him.
\v 32 And every stroke of the appointed staff, which Jehovah shall lay upon him, shall be with
the sound of tabrets and harps; and in battles with the brandishing
of his arm will he fight with them.
\v 33 For a Topheth is prepared of old; yea, for the king it is made ready; he has made it deep and large; the pile thereof is
fire and much wood; the breath of Jehovah, like a stream of brimstone, does kindle it.