\c 33
\p
\v 1 Woe to you that destroyest, and you was not destroyed; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with
thee! When you have ceased to destroy, you shall be destroyed; and when you have made an end of dealing treacherously, they
shall deal treacherously with thee.
\v 2 O Jehovah, be gracious to us; we have waited for thee: be you our arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of
trouble.
\v 3 At the noise of the tumult the peoples are fled; at the lifting up of yourself the nations are scattered.
\v 4 And your spoil shall be gathered as the caterpillar gathereth: as locusts leap shall men leap upon it.
\v 5 Jehovah is exalted; for he lives on high: he has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
\v 6 And there shall be stability in your times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah is your
treasure.
\p
\v 7 Behold, their valiant ones cry without; the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.
\v 8 The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: the enemy
has broken the covenant, he has despised the cities, he regards not man.
\v 9 The land mourneth and languisheth; Lebanon is confounded and withereth away; Sharon is like a desert; and Bashan and
Carmel shake off their leaves.
\v 10 Now will I arise, says Jehovah; now will I lift up myself; now will I be exalted.
\v 11 You shall conceive chaff, you shall bring forth stubble: your breath is a fire that shall devour you.
\v 12 And the peoples shall be as the burnings of lime, as thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire.
\p
\v 13 Hear, you that are far off, what I have done; and, you that are near, acknowledge my might.
\v 14 The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling has seized the godless ones: Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire?
who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?
\v 15 He that walks righteously, and speaks uprightly; he that despises the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands
from taking a bribe, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from looking upon evil:
\v 16 He shall dwell on high; his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks; his bread shall be given
him; his waters shall be sure.
\p
\v 17 Your eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold a land that reaches afar.
\v 18 Your heart shall muse on the terror: Where is he that counted, where is he that weighed
the tribute? where is he that counted the towers?
\v 19 You shall not see the fierce people, a people of a deep speech that you can not comprehend, of a strange tongue that
you can not understand.
\v 20 Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: your eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be
removed, the stakes whereof shall never be plucked up, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken.
\v 21 But there Jehovah will be with us in majesty, a place of broad rivers and streams, wherein shall go no galley with oars,
neither shall gallant ship pass thereby.
\v 22 For Jehovah is our judge, Jehovah is our lawgiver, Jehovah is our king; he will save us.
\v 23 Your tacklings are loosed; they could not strengthen the foot of their mast, they could not spread the sail: then was the
prey of a great spoil divided; the lame took the prey.
\v 24 And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.