\c 34
\p
\v 1 Come near, you nations, to hear; and hearken, you peoples: let the earth hear, and the fulness thereof; the world, and all
things that come forth from it.
\v 2 For Jehovah has indignation against all the nations, and wrath against all their host: he has utterly destroyed them, he
has delivered them to the slaughter.
\v 3 Their slain also shall be cast out, and the stench of their dead bodies shall come up; and the mountains shall be melted
with their blood.
\v 4 And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll; and all their host
shall fade away, as the leaf fades from off the vine, and as a fading
leaf from the fig-tree.
\v 5 For my sword has drunk its fill in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Edom, and upon the people of my curse, to
judgment.
\v 6 The sword of Jehovah is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of
the kidneys of rams; for Jehovah has a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
\v 7 And the wild-oxen shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls: and their land shall be drunken with blood,
and their dust made fat with fatness.
\p
\v 8 For Jehovah has a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion.
\v 9 And the streams of Edom shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof
shall become burning pitch.
\v 10 It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever; from generation to generation it shall
lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever.
\v 11 But the pelican and the porcupine shall possess it; and the owl and the raven shall dwell therein: and he will stretch
over it the line of confusion, and the plummet of emptiness.
\v 12 They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none shall be there; and all its princes shall be nothing.
\v 13 And thorns shall come up in its palaces, nettles and thistles in the fortresses thereof; and it shall be a habitation of
jackals, a court for ostriches.
\v 14 And the wild beasts of the desert shall meet with the wolves, and the wild goat shall cry to his fellow; yea, the
night-monster shall settle there, and shall find her a place of rest.
\v 15 There shall the dart-snake make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shade; yea, there shall the kites be
gathered, every one with her mate.
\p
\v 16 Seek you out of the book of Jehovah, and read: no one of these shall be missing, none shall lack her mate; for my mouth,
it has commanded, and his Spirit, it has gathered them.
\v 17 And he has cast the lot for them, and his hand has divided it to them by line: they shall possess it for ever; from
generation to generation shall they dwell therein.