\c 36
\p
\v 1 Now it came to pass in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, that Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the
fortified cities of Judah, and took them.
\v 2 And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem to king Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the
conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the fuller’s field.
\v 3 Then came forth to him Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son
of Asaph, the recorder.
\p
\v 4 And Rabshakeh said to them, Say you now to Hezekiah, Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is
this wherein you trustest?
\v 5 I say, your counsel and strength for the war are but vain words: now on whom do you trust, that you have
rebelled against me?
\v 6 Behold, you trust upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt, whereon if a man lean, it will go into his
hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all that trust on him.
\v 7 But if you say to me, We trust in Jehovah our God: is not that he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has
taken away, and has said to Judah and to Jerusalem, You shall worship before this altar?
\v 8 Now therefore, I pray you, give pledges to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses, if
you be able on your part to set riders upon them.
\v 9 How then can you turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master’s servants, and put your trust on Egypt for
chariots and for horsemen?
\v 10 And am I now come up without Jehovah against this land to destroy it? Jehovah said to me, Go up against this land, and
destroy it.
\p
\v 11 Then said Eliakim and Shebna and Joah to Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, to your servants in the Syrian language; for
we understand it: and speak not to us in the Jews’ language, in the ears of the people that are on the wall.
\v 12 But Rabshakeh said, Hath my master sent me to your master, and to thee, to speak these words?
has he not sent me to the men that sit upon the wall, to eat their own dung, and to drink their own water
with you?
\p
\v 13 Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jews’ language, and said, Hear you the words of the great king,
the king of Assyria.
\v 14 Thus says the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you; for he will not be able to deliver you:
\v 15 neither let Hezekiah make you trust in Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will surely deliver us; this city shall not be given into
the hand of the king of Assyria.
\v 16 Listen not to Hezekiah: for thus says the king of Assyria, Make your peace with me, and come out to me; and eat you
every one of his vine, and every one of his fig-tree, and drink you every one the waters of his own cistern;
\v 17 until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
\v 18 Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, Jehovah will deliver us. Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his
land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
\v 19 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
\v 20 Who are they among all the gods of these countries, that have delivered their country out of my hand, that Jehovah should
deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?
\p
\v 21 But they held their peace, and answered him not a word; for the king’s commandment was, saying, Answer him not.
\v 22 Then came Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, that was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the
recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.