\c 37
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he tore his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went
into the house of Jehovah.
\v 2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with
sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.
\v 3 And they said to him, Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of contumely; for the
children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.
\v 4 It may be Jehovah your God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master has sent to defy the
living God, and will rebuke the words which Jehovah your God has heard: wherefore lift up your prayer for the remnant that is
left.
\p
\v 5 So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
\v 6 And Isaiah said to them, Thus shall you say to your master, Thus says Jehovah, Be not afraid of the words that you have
heard, wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.
\v 7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him, and he shall hear tidings, and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him to
fall by the sword in his own land.
\p
\v 8 So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah; for he had heard that he was departed from
Lachish.
\v 9 And he heard say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He is come out to fight against thee. And when he heard it, he sent
messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
\v 10 Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying, Let not your God in whom you trust deceive thee, saying,
Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
\v 11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, by destroying them utterly: and shall you be
delivered?
\v 12 Have the gods of the nations delivered them, which my fathers have destroyed, Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the
children of Eden that were in Telassar?
\v 13 Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?
\p
\v 14 And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it; and Hezekiah went up to the house of
Jehovah, and spread it before Jehovah.
\v 15 And Hezekiah prayed to Jehovah, saying,
\v 16 O Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, that sit above
the cherubim, you are the God, even you alone, of all the kingdoms of the eareh; you have made heaven and eareh.
\v 17 Incline your ear, O Jehovah, and hear; open your eyes, O Jehovah, and see; and hear all the words of Sennacherib, who
has sent to defy the living God.
\v 18 Of a truth, Jehovah, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the countries, and their land,
\v 19 and have cast their gods into the fire: for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone; therefore
they have destroyed them.
\v 20 Now therefore, O Jehovah our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the eareh may know that you are
Jehovah, even you only.
\p
\v 21 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, Whereas you have prayed
to me against Sennacherib king of Assyria,
\v 22 this is the word which Jehovah has spoken concerning him: The virgin daughter of Zion has despised you and laughed
you to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem has shaken her head at you.
\v 23 Whom have you defied and blasphemed? and against whom have you exalted your voice and lifted up your eyes on high?
even against the Holy One of Israel.
\v 24 By your servants have you defied the Lord, and have said, With the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of
the mountains, to the innermost parts of Lebanon; and I will cut down the tall cedars thereof, and the choice fir-trees
thereof; and I will enter into its farthest height, the forest of its fruitful field;
\v 25 I have digged and drunk water, and with the sole of my feet will I dry up all the rivers of Egypt.
\p
\v 26 Hast you not heard how I have done it long ago, and formed it of ancient times? now have I brought it to pass, that it
should be your to lay waste fortified cities into ruinous heaps.
\v 27 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were dismayed and confounded; they were as the grass of the field,
and as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as a field
of grain before it is grown up.
\v 28 But I know your sitting down, and your going out, and your coming in, and your raging against me.
\v 29 Because of your raging against me, and because your arrogancy is come up into mine ears, therefore will I put my hook in
your nose, and my bridle in your lips, and I will turn you back by the way by which you camest.
\p
\v 30 And this shall be the sign to thee: you shall eat this youar that which grows of itself, and in the second youar that
which springeth of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat the fruit thereof.
\v 31 And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward.
\v 32 For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and out of mount Zion they that shall escape. The zeal of Jehovah of hosts
will perform this.
\p
\v 33 Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come to this city, nor shoot an arrow there,
neither shall he come before it with shield, nor cast up a mound against it.
\v 34 By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and he shall not come to this city, says Jehovah.
\v 35 For I will defend this city to save it, for mine own sake, and for my servant David’s sake.
\v 36 And the angel of Jehovah went forth, and struck in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred and fourscore and five thousand;
and when men arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
\v 37 So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned, and lived at Nineveh.
\v 38 And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons struck
him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esar-haddon his son reigned in his stead.