\c 40
\p
\v 1 Comfort you, comfort you my people, says your God.
\v 2 Speak you comfortably to Jerusalem; and cry to her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, that
she has received of Jehovah’s hand double for all her sins.
\p
\v 3 The voice of one that crieth, Prepare you in the wilderness the way of Jehovah; make level in the desert a highway for our
God.
\v 4 Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low; and the uneven shall be made level, and the
rough places a plain:
\v 5 and the glory of Jehovah shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together; for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken it.
\p
\v 6 The voice of one saying, Cry. And one said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the
flower of the field.
\v 7 The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, because the breath of Jehovah blows upon it; surely the people is grass.
\v 8 The grass withereth, the flower fadeth; but the word of our God shall stand forever.
\p
\v 9 O you that tellest good tidings to Zion, get you up on a high mountain; O you that tellest good tidings to Jerusalem,
lift up your voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say to the cities of Judah, Behold, your God!
\v 10 Behold, the Lord Jehovah will come as a mighty one, and his arm will rule for him: Behold, his reward is with him, and
his recompense before him.
\v 11 He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom,
and will gently lead those that have their young.
\p
\v 12 Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of
the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance?
\v 13 Who has directed the Spirit of Jehovah, or being his counsellor has taught him?
\v 14 With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and
showed to him the way of understanding?
\v 15 Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are accounted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he takes up
the isles as a very little thing.
\v 16 And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for a burnt-offering.
\v 17 All the nations are as nothing before him; they are accounted by him as less than nothing, and vanity.
\p
\v 18 To whom then will you liken God? or what likeness will you compare to him?
\v 19 The image, a workman has cast it, and the goldsmith overlayeth it with gold, and throws
for it silver chains.
\v 20 He that is too impoverished for such an oblation chooses a tree that will not rot; he seeks to him a
skillful workman to set up a graven image, that shall not be moved.
\v 21 Have you not known? have you not heard? has it not been told you from the beginning? have you not understood from the
foundations of the earth?
\v 22 It is he that sits above the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that
stretches out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in;
\v 23 that brings princes to nothing; that makes the judges of the earth as vanity.
\v 24 Yea, they have not been planted; yea, they have not been sown; yea, their stock has not taken root in the earth:
moreover he blows upon them, and they wither, and the whirlwind takes them away as stubble.
\v 25 To whom then will you liken me, that I should be equal to
him? says the Holy One.
\v 26 Lift up your eyes on high, and see who has created these, that brings out their host by number; he calls them all by
name; by the greatness of his might, and for that he is strong in power, not one is lacking.
\p
\v 27 Why say thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from Jehovah, and the justice
due to me is passed away from my God?
\v 28 Hast you not known? have you not heard? The everlasting God, Jehovah, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth
not, neither is weary; there is no searching of his understanding.
\v 29 He gives power to the faint; and to him that has no might he increases strength.
\v 30 Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall:
\v 31 but they that wait for Jehovah shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and
not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint.