\c 41
\p
\v 1 Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the peoples renew their strength: let them come near; then let them speak; let
us come near together to judgment.
\v 2 Who has raised up one from the east, whom he calls in righteousness to his foot? he gives nations before him, and
makes him rule over kings; he gives them as the dust to his sword, as the driven stubble to his bow.
\v 3 He pursueth them, and passes on safely, even by a way that he had not gone with his feet.
\v 4 Who has wrought and done it, calling the generations from the beginning? I, Jehovah, the first, and with the last, I am
he.
\v 5 The isles have seen, and fear; the ends of the earth tremble; they draw near, and come.
\v 6 They help every one his neighbor; and every one says to his brother, Be of good courage.
\v 7 So the carpenter encourageth the goldsmith, and he that smootheth with the hammer him that smiteth the anvil,
saying of the soldering, It is good; and he fasteneth it with nails, that it should not be moved.
\p
\v 8 But thou, Israel, my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend,
\v 9 you whom I have taken hold of from the ends of the earth, and called from the corners thereof, and said to thee, You
are my servant, I have chosen you and not cast you away;
\v 10 fear you not, for I am with thee; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea,
I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness.
\v 11 Behold, all they that are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded: they that strive with you shall be
as nothing, and shall perish.
\v 12 You shall seek them, and shall not find them, even them that contend with you: they that war against you shall be as
nothing, and as a thing of nought.
\v 13 For I, Jehovah your God, will hold your right hand, saying to thee, Fear not; I will help thee.
\v 14 Fear not, you worm Jacob, and you men of Israel; I will help thee, says Jehovah, and your Redeemer is the Holy One of
Israel.
\v 15 Behold, I have made you to be a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth; you shall thresh the mountains,
and beat them small, and shall make the hills as chaff.
\v 16 You shall winnow them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them; and you shall rejoice
in Jehovah, you shall glory in the Holy One of Israel.
\p
\v 17 The poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue fails for thirst; I, Jehovah, will answer them, I,
the God of Israel, will not forsake them.
\v 18 I will open rivers on the bare heights, and fountains in the midst of the valleys; I will make the wilderness a pool of
water, and the dry land springs of water.
\v 19 I will put in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, and the myrtle, and the oil-tree; I will set in the desert the
fir-tree, the pine, and the box-tree together:
\v 20 that they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of Jehovah has done this, and the Holy
One of Israel has created it.
\p
\v 21 Produce your cause, says Jehovah; bring forth your strong reasons, says the King of Jacob.
\v 22 Let them bring forth, and declare to us what shall happen: declare you the former things, what they are, that we may
consider them, and know the latter end of them; or show us things to come.
\v 23 Declare the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods: youa, do good, or do evil, that we may
be dismayed, and behold it together.
\v 24 Behold, you are of nothing, and your work is of nought; an abomination is he that chooses you.
\p
\v 25 I have raised up one from the north, and he is come; from the rising of the sun one that calls upon my name: and he
shall come upon rulers as upon mortar, and as the potter treadeth clay.
\v 26 Who has declared it from the beginning, that we may know? and beforetime, that we may say,
He is right? yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that showeth, yea, there is none that hears your
words.
\v 27 I am the first that says to Zion, Behold, behold them; and I will give to Jerusalem one that
brings good tidings.
\v 28 And when I look, there is no man: even among them there is no counsellor, that, when I ask of them, can answer a word.
\v 29 Behold, all of them, their works are vanity and nought; their molten images are wind and confusion.