\c 42
\p
\v 1 Behold, my servant, whom I uphold; my chosen, in whom my soul delighteth: I have put my Spirit upon him; he will bring
forth justice to the Gentiles.
\v 2 He will not cry, nor lift up his voice, nor cause it to be heard in the street.
\v 3 A bruised reed will he not break, and a dimly burning wick will he not quench: he will bring forth justice in truth.
\v 4 He will not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set justice in the earth; and the isles shall wait for his law.
\p
\v 5 Thus says God Jehovah, he that created the heavens, and stretched them forth; he that spread abroad the earth and that
which comes out of it; he that gives breath to the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein:
\v 6 I, Jehovah, have called you in righteousness, and will hold your hand, and will keep you, and give you for a covenant of
the people, for a light of the Gentiles;
\v 7 to open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, and them that sit in darkness out of the
prison-house.
\v 8 I am Jehovah, that is my name; and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images.
\v 9 Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare; before they spring forth I tell you of them.
\p
\v 10 Sing to Jehovah a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth; you that go down to the sea, and all that is
therein, the isles, and the inhabitants thereof.
\v 11 Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their
voice, the villages that Kedar does inhabit; let the inhabitants of Sela sing, let them shout from the top of the
mountains.
\v 12 Let them give glory to Jehovah, and declare his praise in the islands.
\v 13 Jehovah will go forth as a mighty man; he will stir up his
zeal like a man of war: he will cry, yea, he will shout aloud; he will do mightily against his enemies.
\p
\v 14 I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and refrained myself:
now will I cry out like a travailing woman; I will gasp and pant together.
\v 15 I will lay waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and will dry up the
pools.
\v 16 And I will bring the blind by a way that they know not; in paths that they know not will I lead them; I will make
darkness light before them, and crooked places straight. These things will I do, and I will not forsake them.
\v 17 They shall be turned back, they shall be utterly put to shame, that trust in graven images, that say to molten images,
You are our gods.
\p
\v 18 Hear, you deaf; and look, you blind, that you may see.
\v 19 Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I send? who is blind as he that is at peace
with me, and blind as Jehovah’s servant?
\v 20 You see many things, but you observest not; his ears are open, but he hears not.
\v 21 It pleased Jehovah, for his righteousness’ sake, to magnify the law, and make it honorable.
\v 22 But this is a people robbed and plundered; they are all of them snared in holes, and they are hid in prison-houses: they
are for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore.
\p
\v 23 Who is there among you that will give ear to this? that will listen and hear for the time to come?
\v 24 Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? did not Jehovah? he against whom we have sinned, and in whose ways
they would not walk, neither were they obedient to his law.
\v 25 Therefore he poured upon him the fierceness of his anger, and the strength of battle; and it set him on fire round about,
yet he knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart.