\c 43
\p
\v 1 But now thus says Jehovah that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed
you; I have called you by your name, you are mine.
\v 2 When you passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when you
walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.
\v 3 For I am Jehovah your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Saviour; I have given Egypt as your ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in your
stead.
\v 4 Since you have been precious in my sight, and honorable, and I have loved thee; therefore will I give men in
your stead, and peoples instead of your life.
\v 5 Fear not; for I am with you: I will bring your seed from the east, and gather you from the west;
\v 6 I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back; bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the end
of the earth;
\v 7 every one that is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed, yea, whom I have made.
\p
\v 8 Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears.
\v 9 Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled: who among them can declare this, and show us
former things? let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, It is truth.
\v 10 You are my witnesses, says Jehovah, and my servant whom I have chosen; that you may know and believe me, and understand
that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.
\v 11 I, even I, am Jehovah; and besides me there is no saviour.
\v 12 I have declared, and I have saved, and I have showed; and there was no strange
god among you: therefore you are my witnesses, says Jehovah, and I am God.
\v 13 Yea, since the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who can hinder it?
\p
\v 14 Thus says Jehovah, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring down
all of them as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their rejoicing.
\v 15 I am Jehovah, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.
\v 16 Thus says Jehovah, who makes a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters;
\v 17 who brings forth the chariot and horse, the army and the mighty man (they lie down together, they shall not rise; they
are extinct, they are quenched as a wick):
\v 18 Remember you not the former things, neither consider the things of old.
\v 19 Behold, I will do a new thing; now shall it spring forth; shall you not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness,
and rivers in the desert.
\v 20 The beasts of the field shall honor me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, and
rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen,
\v 21 the people which I formed for myself, that they might set forth my praise.
\p
\v 22 Yet you have not called upon me, O Jacob; but you have been weary of me, O Israel.
\v 23 You have not brought me of your sheep for burnt-offerings; neither have you honored me with your sacrifices. I have not
burdened you with offerings, nor wearied you with frankincense.
\v 24 You have bought me no sweet cane with money, neither have you filled me with the fat of your sacrifices; but you have
burdened me with your sins, you have wearied me with your iniquities.
\p
\v 25 I, even I, am he that blotteth out your transgressions for mine own sake; and I will not remember your sins.
\v 26 Put me in remembrance; let us plead together: set you forth
your cause, that you may be justified.
\v 27 Your first father sinned, and your teachers have transgressed against me.
\v 28 Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary; and I will make Jacob a curse, and Israel a reviling.