\c 44
\p
\v 1 Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant, and Israel, who I have chosen:
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah that made you, and formed you from the womb, who will help you: Fear not, O Jacob my servant; and
thou, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.
\v 3 For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and streams upon the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon your seed, and
my blessing upon your offspring:
\v 4 and they shall spring up among the grass, as willows by the watercourses.
\v 5 One shall say, I am Jehovah’s; and another shall call himself
by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand to Jehovah, and surname
himself by the name of Israel.
\p
\v 6 Thus says Jehovah, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last; and besides
me there is no God.
\v 7 And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I established the ancient people? and
the things that are coming, and that shall come to pass, let them declare.
\v 8 Fear you not, neither be afraid: have I not declared to you of old, and showed it? and you are my witnesses. Is there a
God besides me? yea, there is no Rock; I know not any.
\p
\v 9 They that fashion a graven image are all of them vanity; and the things that they delight in shall not profit; and their
own witnesses see not, nor know: that they may be put to shame.
\v 10 Who has fashioned a god, or molten an image that is profitable for nothing?
\v 11 Behold, all his fellows shall be put to shame; and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gathered together, let
them stand up; they shall fear, they shall be put to shame together.
\p
\v 12 The smith makes an axe, and works in the coals, and shapes it with hammers, and works it with his
strong arm: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth; he drinks no water, and is faint.
\v 13 The carpenter stretches out a line; he marketh it out with a pencil; he shapeth it with planes, and he marketh it out
with the compasses, and shapeth it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house.
\v 14 He heweth him down cedars, and takes the holm-tree and the oak, and strengthens for himself one among the trees of the
forest: he plants a fir-tree, and the rain does nourish it.
\v 15 Then shall it be for a man to burn; and he takes thereof, and warmeth himself; yea, he kindles it, and baketh bread:
yea, he makes a god, and worships it; he makes it a graven image, and falls down thereto.
\v 16 He burns part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eats flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied; yea, he
warmeth himself, and saith, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire.
\v 17 And the residue thereof he makes a god, even his graven image; he falls down to it and worshippeth, and prays to
it, and saith, Deliver me; for you are my god.
\p
\v 18 They know not, neither do they consider: for he has shut their eyes, that they cannot see; and their hearts, that they
cannot understand.
\v 19 And none calls to mind, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea,
also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh and eaten it: and shall I make the residue thereof an
abomination? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?
\v 20 He feedeth on ashes; a deceived heart has turned him aside; and he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie
in my right hand?
\p
\v 21 Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel; for you are my servant: I have formed thee; you are my servant: O Israel,
you shall not be forgotten of me.
\v 22 I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, your transgressions, and, as a cloud, your sins: return to me; for I have redeemed
thee.
\v 23 Sing, O you heavens, for Jehovah has done it; shout, you lower parts of the earth; break forth into singing, you mountains,
O forest, and every tree therein: for Jehovah has redeemed Jacob, and will glorify himself in Israel.
\p
\v 24 Thus says Jehovah, your Redeemer, and he that formed you from the womb: I am Jehovah, that makes all things; that
stretches forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth (who is with me?);
\v 25 that frustrateth the signs of the liars, and makes diviners mad; that turns wise men backward, and makes their
knowledge foolish;
\v 26 that confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that says of Jerusalem, She shall
be inhabited; and of the cities of Judah, They shall be built, and I will raise up the waste places thereof;
\v 27 that says to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up your rivers;
\v 28 That says of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure, even saying of Jerusalem, She shall
be built; and of the temple, Your foundation shall be laid.