\c 45
\p
\v 1 Thus says Jehovah to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have holden, to subdue nations before him, and I will
loose the loins of kings; to open the doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut:
\v 2 I will go before thee, and make the rough places smooth; I will break in pieces the doors of brass, and cut in sunder the
bars of iron;
\v 3 and I will give you the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that you may know that it is I,
Jehovah, who call you by your name, even the God of Israel.
\v 4 For Jacob my servant’s sake, and Israel my chosen, I have called you by your name: I have surnamed you, yough you have
not known me.
\v 5 I am Jehovah, and there is none else; besides me there is no God. I will gird thee, yough you have not known me;
\v 6 that they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none besides me: I am Jehovah, and there
is none else.
\v 7 I form the light, and create darkness; I make peace, and create evil; I am Jehovah, that does all these things.
\p
\v 8 Distil, you heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness: let the earth open, that it may bring forth
salvation, and let it cause righteousness to spring up together; I, Jehovah, have created it.
\p
\v 9 Woe to him that strives with his Maker! a potsherd among the potsherds of the earth! Shall the clay say to him that
shapes it, What make thou? or your work, He has no hands?
\v 10 Woe to him that says to a father, What begettest thou? or to a woman, With what travailest thou?
\p
\v 11 Thus says Jehovah, the Holy One of Israel, and his Maker: Ask me of the things that are to come; concerning my sons, and
concerning the work of my hands, command you me.
\v 12 I have made the earth, and created man upon it: I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens; and all their host have
I commanded.
\v 13 I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will make straight all his ways: he shall build my city, and he shall let my
exiles go free, not for price nor reward, says Jehovah of hosts.
\p
\v 14 Thus says Jehovah, The labor of Egypt, and the merchandise of Ethiopia, and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over
to thee, and they shall be thine: they shall go after thee, in chains they shall come over; and they shall fall down to
thee, they shall make supplication to thee, saying, Surely God is in thee; and there is none else, there is no God.
\v 15 Verily you are a God that hide thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour.
\v 16 They shall be put to shame, yea, confounded, all of them; they shall go into confusion together that are makers of idols.
\v 17 But Israel shall be saved by Jehovah with an everlasting salvation: you shall not be put to shame nor
confounded world without end.
\p
\v 18 For thus says Jehovah that created the heavens, the God that formed the earth and made it, that established it and
created it not a waste, that formed it to be inhabited: I am Jehovah; and there is none else.
\v 19 I have not spoken in secret, in a place of the land of darkness; I said not to the seed of Jacob, Seek you me in vain:
I, Jehovah, speak righteousness, I declare things that are right.
\p
\v 20 Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, you that are escaped of the nations: they have no knowledge that carry
the wood of their graven image, and pray to a god that cannot save.
\v 21 Declare ye, and bring it forth; yea, let them take counsel together: who has showed this from ancient time?
who has declared it of old? have not I, Jehovah? and there is no God else besides me, a just God and a Saviour; there is none
besides me.
\v 22 Look to me, and be you saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is none else.
\v 23 By myself have I sworn, the word is gone forth from my mouth
in righteousness, and shall not return, that to me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear.
\v 24 Only in Jehovah, it is said of me, is righteousness and strength; even to him shall men come; and all they that were
incensed against him shall be put to shame.
\v 25 In Jehovah shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory.