\c 47
\p
\v 1 Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the
Chaldeans: for you shall no more be called tender and delicate.
\v 2 Take the millstones, and grind meal; remove your veil, strip off the train, uncover the leg, pass through the rivers.
\v 3 Your nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, your shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and will spare no man.
\v 4 Our Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel.
\v 5 Sit you silent, and get you into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for you shall no more be called The mistress of
kingdoms.
\v 6 I was angry with my people, I profaned mine inheritance, and gave them into your hand: you did show them no mercy; upon
the aged have you very heavily laid your yoke.
\v 7 And you saidst, I shall be mistress for ever; so that you did not lay these things to your heart, neither did
remember the latter end thereof.
\p
\v 8 Now therefore hear this, you that are given to pleasures, that sit securely, that say in your heare, I am, and
there is none else besides me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children:
\v 9 but these two things shall come to you in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood; in their full measure
shall they come upon thee, in the multitude of your sorceries, and the great abundance of your enchantments.
\v 10 For you have trusted in your wickedness; you have said, None sees me; your wisdom and your knowledge, it has perverted
thee, and you have said in your heart, I am, and there is none else besides me.
\v 11 Therefore shall evil come upon thee; you shall not know the dawning thereof: and mischief shall fall upon thee; you
shall not be able to put it away: and desolation shall come upon you suddenly, which you know not.
\p
\v 12 Stand now with your enchantments, and with the multitude of your sorceries, wherein you have labored from your youth; if
so be you shall be able to profit, if so be you may prevail.
\v 13 You are wearied in the multitude of your counsels: let now the astrologers, the star-gazers, the monthly prognosticators,
stand up, and save you from the things that shall come upon you.
\v 14 Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the
flame: it shall not be a coal to warm at, nor a fire to sit before.
\v 15 Thus shall the things be to you wherein you have labored: they that have trafficked with you from your youth shall
wander every one to his quarter; there shall be none to save thee.