\c 48
\p
\v 1 Hear you this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah; who
swear by the name of Jehovah, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness
\v 2 (for they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; Jehovah of hosts is his name):
\v 3 I have declared the former things from of old; yea, they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them: suddenly I did
them, and they came to pass.
\v 4 Because I knew that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew, and your brow brass;
\v 5 therefore I have declared it to you from of old; before it came to pass I showed it you; lest you should say, Mine
idol has done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, has commanded them.
\v 6 You have heard it; behold all this; and you, will you not declare it? I have showed you new things from this time, even
hidden things, which you have not known.
\v 7 They are created now, and not from of old; and before this day you heard them not; lest you should say, Behold, I
knew them.
\v 8 Yea, you heard not; yea, you knew not; yea, from of old your ear was not opened: for I knew that you did deal
very treacherously, and was called a transgressor from the womb.
\v 9 For my name’s sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise will I refrain for you, that I cut you not off.
\v 10 Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have chosen you in the furnace of affliction.
\v 11 For mine own sake, for mine own sake, will I do it; for how should
my name be profaned? and my glory will I not give to another.
\p
\v 12 Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel my called: I am he; I am the first, I also am the last.
\v 13 Yea, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand has spread out the heavens: when I call to them,
they stand up together.
\v 14 Assemble yourselves, all ye, and hear; who among them has declared these things? He whom Jehovah loves shall perform
his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.
\v 15 I, even I, have spoken; yea, I have called him; I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous.
\v 16 Come you near to me, hear you this; from the beginning I have not spoken in secret; from the time that it was, there am
I: and now the Lord Jehovah has sent me, and his Spirit.
\p
\v 17 Thus says Jehovah, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am Jehovah your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads
you by the way that you should go.
\v 18 Oh that you had listened to my commandments! then had your peace been as a river, and your righteousness as the waves
of the sea:
\v 19 your seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of your bowels like the grains thereof: his name would not be cut
off nor destroyed from before me.
\p
\v 20 Go you forth from Babylon, flee you from the Chaldeans; with a voice of singing declare you, tell this, utter it even to the
end of the earth: say ye, Jehovah has redeemed his servant Jacob.
\v 21 And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts; he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he
clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out.
\v 22 There is no peace, says Jehovah, to the wicked.