\c 49
\p
\v 1 Listen, O isles, to me; and hearken, you peoples, from far: Jehovah has called me from the womb; from the bowels of my
mother has he made mention of my name:
\v 2 and he has made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand has he hid me: and he has made me a polished
shaft; in his quiver has he kept me close:
\v 3 and he said to me, You are my servant; Israel, in whom I will be glorified.
\v 4 But I said, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing and vanity; yet surely the justice
due to me is with Jehovah, and my recompense with my God.
\p
\v 5 And now says Jehovah that formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him, and that Israel be
gathered to him (for I am honorable in the eyes of Jehovah, and my God is become my strength);
\v 6 yea, he saith, It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore
the preserved of Israel: I will also give you for a light to the Gentiles, that you may be my salvation to the end of
the earth.
\v 7 Thus says Jehovah, the Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One, to him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation
abhorreth, to a servant of rulers: Kings shall see and arise; princes, and they shall worship; because of Jehovah that is
faithful, even the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen thee.
\p
\v 8 Thus says Jehovah, In an acceptable time have I answered thee, and in a day of salvation have I helped thee; and I will
preserve you, and give you for a covenant of the people, to raise up the land, to make them inherit the desolate heritages;
\v 9 saying to them that are bound, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Show yourselves. They shall feed in the ways, and
on all bare heights shall be their pasture.
\v 10 They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun strike them: for he that has mercy on them will lead
them, even by springs of water will he guide them.
\v 11 And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall be exalted.
\v 12 Lo, these shall come from far; and, lo, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.
\v 13 Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains: for Jehovah has comforted his
people, and will have compassion upon his afflicted.
\p
\v 14 But Zion said, Jehovah has forsaken me, and the Lord has forgotten me.
\v 15 Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? yea, these may forget,
yet will not I forget thee.
\v 16 Behold, I have graven you upon the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.
\v 17 Your children make haste; your destroyers and they that made you waste shall go forth from you.
\v 18 Lift up your eyes round about, and behold: all these gather themselves together, and come to thee. As I live, says
Jehovah, you shall surely clothe you with them all as with an ornament, and gird yourself with them, like a bride.
\v 19 For, as for your waste and your desolate places, and your land that has been destroyed, surely now shall you be too strait
for the inhabitants, and they that swallowed you up shall be far away.
\v 20 The children of your bereavement shall yet say in your ears, The place is too strait for me; give place to me that I may
dwell.
\v 21 Then shall you say in your heart, Who has begotten me these, seeing I have been bereaved of my children, and am
solitary, an exile, and wandering to and fro? and who has brought up these? Behold, I was left alone; these, where were they?
\p
\v 22 Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and set up my ensign to the peoples; and they
shall bring your sons in their bosom, and your daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.
\v 23 And kings shall be your nursing fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers: they shall bow down to you with their
faces to the earth, and lick the dust of your feet; and you shall know that I am Jehovah; and they that wait for me shall not
be put to shame.
\p
\v 24 Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives be delivered?
\v 25 But thus says Jehovah, Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be
delivered; for I will contend with him that contends with thee, and I will save your children.
\v 26 And I will feed them that oppress you with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood, as with
sweet wine: and all flesh shall know that I, Jehovah, am your Saviour, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.