\c 51
\p
\v 1 Listen to me, you that follow after righteousness, you that seek Jehovah: look to the rock whence you were hewn, and to
the hole of the pit whence you were digged.
\v 2 Look to Abraham your father, and to Sarah that bare you; for when he was but one I called him, and I blessed him, and
made him many.
\v 3 For Jehovah has comforted Zion; he has comforted all her waste places, and has made her wilderness like Eden, and her
desert like the garden of Jehovah; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.
\p
\v 4 Attend to me, O my people; and give ear to me, O my nation: for a law shall go forth from me, and I will establish my
justice for a light of the peoples.
\v 5 My righteousness is near, my salvation is gone forth, and mine arms shall judge the peoples; the isles shall wait for me,
and on mine arm shall they trust.
\v 6 Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath; for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the
earth shall wax old like a garment; and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner: but my salvation shall be for ever,
and my righteousness shall not be abolished.
\p
\v 7 Listen to me, you that know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law; fear you not the reproach of men, neither
be you dismayoud at their revilings.
\v 8 For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them like wool; but my righteousness shall be for
ever, and my salvation to all generations.
\p
\v 9 Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of Jehovah; awake, as in the days of old, the generations of ancient times. Is it not
you that did cut Rahab in pieces, that did pierce the monster?
\v 10 Is it not you that dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep; that made the depths of the sea a way for the
redeemed to pass over?
\v 11 And the ransomed of Jehovah shall return, and come with singing to Zion; and everlasting joy shall be upon their heads:
they shall obtain gladness and joy; and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
\p
\v 12 I, even I, am he that comforteth you: who are you, that you are afraid of man that shall die, and of the son of man
that shall be made as grass;
\v 13 and have forgotten Jehovah your Maker, that stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth; and
fear continually all the day because of the fury of the oppressor, when he makes ready to destroy? and where is the fury of
the oppressor?
\v 14 The captive exile shall speedily be loosed; and he shall not die
and go down into the pit, neither shall his bread fail.
\v 15 For I am Jehovah your God, who stirreth up the sea, so that the waves thereof roar: Jehovah of hosts is his name.
\v 16 And I have put my words in your mouth, and have covered you in the shadow of my hand, that I may plant the heavens, and
lay the foundations of the eareh, and say to Zion, You are my people.
\p
\v 17 Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, that have drunk at the hand of Jehovah the cup of his wrath; you have drunken the
bowl of the cup of staggering, and drained it.
\v 18 There is none to guide her among all the sons whom she has brought forth; neither is there any that takes her by the
hand among all the sons that she has brought up.
\v 19 These two things are befallen thee, who shall bemoan thee? desolation and destruction, and the famine and the sword; how
shall I comfort thee?
\v 20 Your sons have fainted, they lie at the head of all the streets, as an antelope in a net; they are full of the wrath of
Jehovah, the rebuke of your God.
\p
\v 21 Therefore hear now this, you afflicted, and drunken, but not with wine:
\v 22 Thus says your Lord Jehovah, and your God that pleadeth the cause of his people, Behold, I have taken out of your hand the
cup of staggering, even the bowl of the cup of my wrath; you shall no more drink it again:
\v 23 and I will put it into the hand of them that afflict thee, that have said to your soul, Bow down, that we may go over; and
you have laid your back as the ground, and as the street, to them that go over.