\c 52
\p
\v 1 Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion; put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there
shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean.
\v 2 Shake yourself from the dust; arise, sit on your throne, O Jerusalem: loose yourself from the bonds of your neck, O
captive daughter of Zion.
\p
\v 3 For thus says Jehovah, You were sold for nought; and you shall be redeemed without money.
\v 4 For thus says the Lord Jehovah, My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there: and the Assyrian has
oppressed them without cause.
\v 5 Now therefore, what do I here, says Jehovah, seeing that my people is taken away for nought? they that rule over them do
howl, says Jehovah, and my name continually all the day is blasphemed.
\v 6 Therefore my people shall know my name: therefore they shall know
in that day that I am he that does speak; behold, it is I.
\p
\v 7 How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that brings good tidings, that publisheth peace, that brings good
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation, that says to Zion, Your God reigneth!
\v 8 The voice of your watchmen! they lift up the voice, together do they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when Jehovah
returns to Zion.
\v 9 Break forth into joy, sing together, you waste places of Jerusalem; for Jehovah has comforted his people, he has redeemed
Jerusalem.
\v 10 Jehovah has made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation
of our God.
\p
\v 11 Depart you, depart you, go you out from thence, touch no unclean thing; go you out of the midst of her; cleanse yourselves,
you that bear the vessels of Jehovah.
\v 12 For you shall not go out in haste, neither shall you go by flight: for Jehovah will go before you; and the God of Israel
will be your rearward.
\p
\v 13 Behold, my servant shall deal wisely, he shall be exalted and lifted up, and shall be very high.
\v 14 Like as many were astonished at you (his visage was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of
men),
\v 15 so shall he sprinkle many nations; kings shall shut their mouths at him: for that which had not been told them shall they
see; and that which they had not heard shall they understand.