\c 54
\p
\v 1 Sing, O barren, you that did not bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud, you that did not travail with child:
for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, says Jehovah.
\v 2 Enlarge the place of your tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of your habitations; spare not: lengthen your cords,
and strengthen your stakes.
\v 3 For you shall spread abroad on the right hand and on the left; and your seed shall possess the nations, and make the
desolate cities to be inhabited.
\p
\v 4 Fear not; for you shall not be ashamed: neither be you confounded; for you shall not be put to shame: for you shall
forget the shame of your youth; and the reproach of your widowhood shall you remember no more.
\v 5 For your Maker is your husband; Jehovah of hosts is his name: and the Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer; the God of the
whole earth shall he be called.
\v 6 For Jehovah has called you as a wife forsaken and grieved in spirit, even a wife of youth, when she is cast off, says
your God.
\v 7 For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercies will I gather thee.
\v 8 In overflowing wrath I hid my face from you for a moment; but with everlasting lovingkindness will I have mercy on you,
says Jehovah your Redeemer.
\p
\v 9 For this is as the waters of Noah to me; for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah shall no more go over the
earth, so have I sworn that I will not be angry with thee, nor rebuke thee.
\v 10 For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed; but my lovingkindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall
my covenant of peace be removed, says Jehovah that has mercy on thee.
\p
\v 11 O you afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in fair colors, and lay your
foundations with sapphires.
\v 12 And I will make your pinnacles of rubies, and your gates of carbuncles, and all your border of precious stones.
\v 13 And all your children shall be taught of Jehovah; and great shall be the peace of your children.
\v 14 In righteousness shall you be established: you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not fear; and from terror,
for it shall not come near thee.
\v 15 Behold, they may gather together, but not by me: whoever shall gather together against you shall fall because of you.
\v 16 Behold, I have created the smith that blows the fire of coals, and brings forth a weapon for his work; and I have
created the waster to destroy.
\v 17 No weapon that is formed against you shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against you in judgment you shall
condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of Jehovah, and their righteousness which is of me, says Jehovah.