\c 55
\p
\v 1 Ho, every one that thirsteth, come you to the waters, and he that has no money; come you, buy, and eat; youa, come, buy wine
and milk without money and without price.
\v 2 Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread? and your labor for that which satisfies not? listen diligently
to me, and eat you that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness.
\v 3 Incline your ear, and come to me; hear, and your soul shall live: and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even
the sure mercies of David.
\v 4 Behold, I have given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples.
\v 5 Behold, you shall call a nation that you know not; and a nation that knew not you shall run to you, because of
Jehovah your God, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he has glorified thee.
\p
\v 6 Seek you Jehovah while he may be found; call you upon him while he is near:
\v 7 let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; and let him return to Jehovah, and he will have
mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
\v 8 For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, says Jehovah.
\v 9 For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
\v 10 For as the rain comes down and the snow from heaven, and returns not thither, but watereth the earth, and makes it
bring forth and bud, and gives seed to the sower and bread to the eater;
\v 11 so shall my word be that goes forth out of my mouth: it shall not return to me void, but it shall accomplish that
which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.
\v 12 For you shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into
singing; and all the trees of the fields shall clap their hands.
\v 13 Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir-tree; and instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle-tree: and it shall be
to Jehovah for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.