\c 58
\p
\v 1 Cry aloud, spare not, lift up your voice like a trumpet, and declare to my people their transgression, and to the house
of Jacob their sins.
\v 2 Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways: as a nation that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinance of
their God, they ask of me righteous judgments; they delight to draw near to God.
\v 3 Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and you see not?
wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and you take no knowledge? Behold, in the day of your fast you find
your own pleasure, and exact all your labors.
\v 4 Behold, you fast for strife and contention, and to strike with the fist of wickedness: you fast not this day so as to make
your voice to be heard on high.
\v 5 Is such the fast that I have chosen? the day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a rush, and to
spread sackcloth and ashes under him? will you call this a fast, and an acceptable day to Jehovah?
\v 6 Is not this the fast that I have chosen: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke, and to let the
oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke?
\v 7 Is it not to deal your bread to the hungry, and that you bring the poor that are cast out to your house? when you see
the naked, that you cover him; and that you hide not yourself from your own flesh?
\v 8 Then shall your light break forth as the morning, and your healing shall spring forth speedily; and your righteousness shall
go before thee; the glory of Jehovah shall be your rearward.
\v 9 Then shall you call, and Jehovah will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, Here I am.
\p If you take away from the midst of you the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking wickedly;
\v 10 and if you draw out your soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul: then shall your light rise in darkness, and
your obscurity be as the noonday;
\v 11 and Jehovah will guide you continually, and satisfy your soul in dry places, and make strong your bones; and you shall be
like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.
\v 12 And they that shall be of you shall build the old waste places; you shall raise up the foundations of many generations;
and you shall be called The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.
\p
\v 13 If you turn away your foot from the sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight,
and the holy of Jehovah honorable; and shall honor it, not doing your own ways, nor finding your own pleasure, nor
speaking your own words:
\v 14 then shall you delight yourself in Jehovah; and I will make you to ride upon the high places of the earth; and I will
feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father: for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken it.