\c 60
\p
\v 1 Arise, shine; for your light is come, and the glory of Jehovah is risen upon thee.
\v 2 For, behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the peoples; but Jehovah will arise upon thee, and his
glory shall be seen upon thee.
\v 3 And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.
\p
\v 4 Lift up your eyes round about, and see: they all gather themselves together, they come to thee; your sons shall come from
far, and your daughters shall be carried in the arms.
\v 5 Then you shall see and be radiant, and your heart shall thrill and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea shall be
turned to thee, the wealth of the nations shall come to thee.
\v 6 The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come; they shall
bring gold and frankincense, and shall proclaim the praises of Jehovah.
\v 7 All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered together to thee, the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to thee; they shall
come up with acceptance on mine altar; and I will glorify the house of my glory.
\v 8 Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?
\v 9 Surely the isles shall wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring your sons from far, their silver and their
gold with them, for the name of Jehovah your God, and for the Holy One of Israel, because he has glorified thee.
\p
\v 10 And foreigners shall build up your walls, and their kings shall minister to thee: for in my wrath I struck thee, but in
my favor have I had mercy on thee.
\v 11 Your gates also shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that men may bring to you the wealth
of the nations, and their kings led captive.
\v 12 For that nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish; yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted.
\v 13 The glory of Lebanon shall come to thee, the fir-tree, the pine, and the box-tree together, to beautify the place of my
sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious.
\v 14 And the sons of them that afflicted you shall come bending to you; and all they that despised you shall bow
themselves down at the soles of your feet; and they shall call you The city of Jehovah, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
\p
\v 15 Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, so that no man passed through you, I will make you an eternal excellency, a
joy of many generations.
\v 16 You shall also suck the milk of the nations, and shall suck the breast of kings; and you shall know that I, Jehovah, am
your Saviour, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
\v 17 For brass I will bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver, and for wood brass, and for stones iron. I will also make
your officers peace, and your exactors righteousness.
\v 18 Violence shall no more be heard in your land, desolation nor destruction within your borders; but you shall call your walls
Salvation, and your gates Praise.
\v 19 The sun shall be no more your light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon give light to thee: but Jehovah will
be to you an everlasting light, and your God your glory.
\v 20 Your sun shall no more go down, neither shall your moon withdraw itself; for Jehovah will be your everlasting light, and
the days of your mourning shall be ended.
\v 21 Your people also shall be all righteous; they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my
hands, that I may be glorified.
\v 22 The little one shall become a thousand, and the small one a strong nation; I, Jehovah, will hasten it in its time.