\c 63
\p
\v 1 Who is this that comes from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this that is glorious in his apparel, marching in the
greatness of his strength? I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save.
\v 2 Wherefore are you red in your apparel, and your garments like him that treadeth in the winevat?
\v 3 I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the peoples there was no man with me: yea, I trod them in mine anger, and
trampled them in my wrath; and their lifeblood is sprinkled upon my garments, and I have stained all my raiment.
\v 4 For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redeemed is come.
\v 5 And I looked, and there was none to help; and I wondered that there was none to uphold: therefore mine own arm brought
salvation to me; and my wrath, it upheld me.
\v 6 And I trod down the peoples in mine anger, and made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth.
\p
\v 7 I will make mention of the lovingkindnesses of Jehovah, and
the praises of Jehovah, according to all that Jehovah has bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the house of
Israel, which he has bestowed on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses.
\v 8 For he said, Surely, they are my people, children that will not deal falsely: so he was their Saviour.
\v 9 In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he
redeemed them; and he bare them, and carried them all the days of old.
\p
\v 10 But they rebelled, and grieved his holy Spirit: therefore he was turned to be their enemy,
and himself fought against them.
\v 11 Then he remembered the days of old, Moses and his people,
saying, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? where is he that put his
holy Spirit in the midst of them?
\v 12 that caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses? that divided the waters before them, to make himself an
everlasting name?
\v 13 that led them through the depths, as a horse in the wilderness, so that they stumbled not?
\v 14 As the cattle that go down into the valley, the Spirit of Jehovah caused them to rest: so did you lead your people, to
make yourself a glorious name.
\p
\v 15 Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of your holiness and of your glory: where are your zeal and your mighty
acts? the yearning of your heart and your compassions are restrained toward me.
\v 16 For you are our Father, yough Abraham knows us not, and Israel does not acknowledge us: you, O Jehovah, are our
Father; our Redeemer from everlasting is your name.
\v 17 O Jehovah, why do you make us to err from your ways, and hardenest our heart from your fear? Return for your servants’
sake, the tribes of your inheritance.
\v 18 Your holy people possessed it but a little while: our adversaries have trodden down your sanctuary.
\v 19 We are become as they over whom you never barest rule, as they that were not called by your name.