\c 65
\p
\v 1 I am inquired of by them that asked not for me; I am found of them that sought me not: I said, Behold me, behold
me, to a nation that was not called by my name.
\v 2 I have spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people, that walk in a way that is not good, after their own
thoughts;
\v 3 a people that provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens, and burning incense upon bricks;
\v 4 that sit among the graves, and lodge in the secret places; that eat swine’s flesh, and broth of abominable things is in
their vessels;
\v 5 that say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that
burns all the day.
\v 6 Behold, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, yea, I will recompense into their bosom,
\v 7 your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, says Jehovah, that have burned incense upon the
mountains, and blasphemed me upon the hills: therefore will I first measure their work into their bosom.
\p
\v 8 Thus says Jehovah, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one says, Destroy it not, for a blessing is in it: so
will I do for my servants’ sake, that I may not destroy them all.
\v 9 And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains; and my chosen shall inherit it,
and my servants shall dwell there.
\v 10 And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in, for my people that have
sought me.
\v 11 But you that forsake Jehovah, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for Fortune, and that fill up mingled
wine to Destiny;
\v 12 I will destine you to the sword, and you shall all bow down to the slaughter; because when I called, you did not answer;
when I spake, you did not hear; but you did that which was evil in mine eyous, and chose that wherein I delighted not.
\p
\v 13 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry; behold, my servants shall
drink, but you shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame;
\v 14 behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but you shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall wail for vexation of
spirit.
\v 15 And you shall leave your name for a curse to my chosen; and the Lord Jehovah will kill thee; and he will call his
servants by another name:
\v 16 so that he who blesses himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he that swears in the earth
shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from mine eyes.
\p
\v 17 For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.
\v 18 But be you glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create; for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a
joy.
\v 19 And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people; and there shall be heard in her no more the voice of weeping and
the voice of crying.
\v 20 There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that has not filled his days; for the child shall die a
hundred years old, and the sinner being a hundred years old shall be accursed.
\v 21 And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.
\v 22 They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree shall be the
days of my people, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
\v 23 They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for calamity; for they are the seed of the blessed of Jehovah, and their
offspring with them.
\v 24 And it shall come to pass that, before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.
\v 25 The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent’s
food. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, says Jehovah.