\c 66
\p
\v 1 Thus says Jehovah, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool: what manner of house will you build to me? and
what place shall be my rest?
\v 2 For all these things has my hand made, and so all these things came to be, says Jehovah: but to this man will
I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and that trembleth at my word.
\v 3 He that kills an ox is as he that kills a man; he that sacrifices a lamb, as he that breaks a dog’s neck; he that
offers an oblation, as he that offers swine’s blood; he that burns frankincense, as he that blesses an idol.
Yea, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations:
\v 4 I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears upon them; because when I called, none did answer; when I
spake, they did not hear: but they did that which was evil in mine eyes, and chose that wherein I delighted not.
\p
\v 5 Hear the word of Jehovah, you that tremble at his word: Your brethren that hate you, that cast you out for my name’s sake,
have said, Let Jehovah be glorified, that we may see your joy; but it is they that shall be put to shame.
\v 6 A voice of tumult from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of Jehovah that rendereth recompense to his enemies.
\p
\v 7 Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came, she was delivered of a man-child.
\v 8 Who has heard such a thing? who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? shall a nation be brought forth
at once? for as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children.
\v 9 Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth? says Jehovah: shall I that cause to bring forth shut
the womb? says your God.
\p
\v 10 Rejoice you with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all you that love her: rejoice for joy with her, all you that mourn over
her;
\v 11 that you may suck and be satisfied with the breasts of her consolations; that you may milk out, and be delighted with the
abundance of her glory.
\v 12 For thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing
stream: and you shall suck thereof; you shall be borne upon the side, and shall be dandled upon the knees.
\v 13 As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you; and you shall be comforted in Jerusalem.
\v 14 And you shall see it, and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like the tender grass: and the
hand of Jehovah shall be known toward his servants; and he will have indignation against his enemies.
\p
\v 15 For, behold, Jehovah will come with fire, and his chariots shall be like the whirlwind; to render his anger with
fierceness, and his rebuke with flames of fire.
\v 16 For by fire will Jehovah execute judgment, and by his sword, upon all flesh; and the slain of Jehovah shall be many.
\v 17 They that sanctify themselves and purify themselves to go
to the gardens, behind one in the midst, eating swine’s flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, they shall come to
an end together, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 18 For I know their works and their thoughts: the time
cometh, that I will gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come, and shall see my glory.
\v 19 And I will set a sign among them, and I will send such as escape of them to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud,
that draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to the isles afar off, that have not heard my fame, neither have seen my glory; and they
shall declare my glory among the nations.
\v 20 And they shall bring all your brethren out of all the nations for an oblation to Jehovah, upon horses, and in chariots,
and in litters, and upon mules, and upon dromedaries, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says Jehovah, as the children of Israel
bring their oblation in a clean vessel into the house of Jehovah.
\v 21 And of them also will I take for priests and for Levites, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 22 For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, says Jehovah, so shall your seed
and your name remain.
\v 23 And it shall come to pass, that from one new moon to another, and from one sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to
worship before me, says Jehovah.
\v 24 And they shall go forth, and look upon the dead bodies of the men that have transgressed against me: for their worm shall
not die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they shall be an abhorring to all flesh.