\c 12
\p
\v 1 Therefore let us also, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight, and the
sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
\v 2 looking to Jesus the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the
cross, despising shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
\v 3 For consider him that has endured such gainsaying of sinners against himself, that you wax not weary, fainting in your
souls.
\v 4 You have not yet resisted to blood, striving against sin:
\v 5 and you have forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with sons,
\q My son, regard not lightly the chastening of the Lord,
\q Nor faint when you are reproved of him;
\q
\v 6 For whom the Lord loves he chasteneth,
\q And scourges every son whom he receiveth.
\p
\v 7 It is for chastening that you endure; God deals with you as with sons; for what son is there whom
his father chasteneth not?
\v 8 But if you are without chastening, whereof all have been made partakers, then are you bastards, and not sons.
\v 9 Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in
subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
\v 10 For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed good to them; but he for
our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness.
\v 11 All chastening seems for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yieldeth peaceful fruit to them
that have been exercised thereby, even the fruit of righteousness.
\v 12 Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the palsied knees;
\v 13 and make straight paths for your feet, that that which is lame be not turned out of the way, but rather be healed.
\p
\v 14 Follow after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man shall see the Lord:
\v 15 looking carefully lest there be any man that falls short of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness
springing up trouble you, and thereby the many be defiled;
\v 16 lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who for one mess of meat sold his own birthright.
\v 17 For you know that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for a
change of mind in his father, though he sought it diligently with tears.
\p
\v 18 For you are not come to a mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, and
darkness, and tempest,
\v 19 and the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice
they that heard entreated that no word more should be spoken to them;
\v 20 for they could not endure that which was enjoined, If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned;
\v 21 and so fearful was the appearance, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:
\v 22 but you are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable hosts of
angels,
\v 23 to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the
spirits of just men made perfect,
\v 24 and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than
that of Abel.
\v 25 See that you refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not when they refused him that warned
them on earth, much more shall not we escape who turn away from him that
warneth from heaven:
\v 26 whose voice then shook the earth: but now he has promised, saying, Yet once more will I make to tremble not the earth
only, but also the heaven.
\v 27 And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have
been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain.
\v 28 Wherefore, receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us have grace, whereby we may offer service well-pleasing to
God with reverence and awe:
\v 29 for our God is a consuming fire.