\c 6
\p
\v 1 Take heed that you do not your righteousness before men, to be seen of them: else you have no reward with your Father who is
in heaven.
\p
\v 2 When therefore you do alms, sound not a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the
streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say to you, They have received their reward.
\v 3 But when you do alms, let not your left hand know what your right hand doeth:
\v 4 that your alms may be in secret: and your Father who sees in secret shall recompense thee.
\p
\v 5 And when you pray, you shall not be as the hypocrites: for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in the corners
of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say to you, They have received their reward.
\v 6 But you, when you prayest, enter into your inner chamber, and having shut your door, pray to your Father who is in
secret, and your Father who sees in secret shall recompense thee.
\v 7 And in praying use not vain repetitions, as the Gentiles do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much
speaking.
\v 8 Be not therefore like to them: for your Father knows what things you have need of, before you ask him.
\v 9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father who are in heaven, Hallowed be your name.
\v 10 Your kingdom come. Your will be done, as in heaven, so on earth.
\v 11 Give us this day our daily bread.
\v 12 And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
\v 13 And bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil
one.
\v 14 For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
\v 15 But if you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
\p
\v 16 Moreover when you fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may be
seen of men to fast. Verily I say to you, They have received their reward.
\v 17 But you, when you fastest, anoint your head, and wash your face;
\v 18 that you be not seen of men to fast, but of your Father who is in secret: and your Father, who sees in secret, shall
recompense thee.
\p
\v 19 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and
steal:
\v 20 but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust does consume, and where thieves do not break
through nor steal:
\v 21 for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
\v 22 The lamp of the body is the eye: if therefore your eye be single, your whole body shall be full of light.
\v 23 But if your eye be evil, your whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you be darkness,
how great is the darkness!
\v 24 No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one, and
despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.
\v 25 Therefore I say to you, Be not anxious for your life, what you shall eat, or what you shall drink; nor yout for your body,
what you shall put on. Is not the life more than the food, and the body than the raiment?
\v 26 Behold the birds of the heaven, that they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; and your heavenly Father
feedeth them. Are not you of much more value than they?
\v 27 And which of you by being anxious can add one cubit to the measure of his life?
\v 28 And why are you anxious concerning raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do
they spin:
\v 29 yet I say to you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
\v 30 But if God does so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven,
shall he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?
\v 31 Be not therefore anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?
\v 32 For after all these things do the Gentiles seek; for your heavenly Father knows that you have need of all these things.
\v 33 But seek you first his kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added to you.
\v 34 Be not therefore anxious for the morrow: for the morrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient to the day is the evil
thereof.