\c 16
\p
\v 1 And the Pharisees and Sadducees came, and trying him asked him to show them a sign from heaven.
\v 2 But he answered and said to them, When it is evening, you say,
It will be fair weather: for the heaven is red.
\v 3 And in the morning, It will be foul weather to-day: for the heaven is red and lowering. You know how to discern
the face of the heaven; but you cannot discern the signs of the times.
\v 4 An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of Jonah.
And he left them, and departed.
\p
\v 5 And the disciples came to the other side and forgot to take bread.
\v 6 And Jesus said to them, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
\v 7 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, We took no bread.
\v 8 And Jesus perceiving it said, O you of little faith, why reason you among yourselves, because you have no bread?
\v 9 Do you not yout perceive, neither remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
\v 10 Neither the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
\v 11 How is it that you do not perceive that I spoke not to you concerning bread? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and
Sadducees.
\v 12 Then understood they that he bade them not beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and
Sadducees.
\p
\v 13 Now when Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Who do men say that the Son of
man is?
\v 14 And they said, Some say John the Baptist; some, Elijah; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.
\v 15 He says to them, But who say you that I am?
\v 16 And Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
\v 17 And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are thou, Simon Bar-Jonah: for flesh and blood has not revealed it to
thee, but my Father who is in heaven.
\v 18 And I also say to thee, that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of Hades shall
not prevail against it.
\v 19 I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in
heaven; and whatever you shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
\v 20 Then charged he the disciples that they should tell no man that he was the Christ.
\p
\v 21 From that time began Jesus to show to his disciples, that he must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the
elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up.
\v 22 And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this shall never be to thee.
\v 23 But he turned, and said to Peter, Get you behind me, Satan: you are a stumbling block to me: for you mindest not
the things of God, but the things of men.
\v 24 Then said Jesus to his disciples, If any man would come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and
follow me.
\v 25 For whoever would save his life shall lose it: and whoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it.
\v 26 For what shall a man be profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and forfeit his life? or what shall a man give in
exchange for his life?
\v 27 For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then shall he render to every man
according to his deeds.
\v 28 Verily I say to you, There are some of them that stand here, who shall in no wise taste of death, till they see the Son
of man coming in his kingdom.