\c 19
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass when Jesus had finished these words, he departed from Galilee, and came into the borders of Judaea
beyond the Jordan;
\v 2 and great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.
\p
\v 3 And there came to him Pharisees, trying him, and saying, Is it lawful
for a man to put away his wife for every cause?
\v 4 And he answered and said, Have you not read, that he who made
them from the beginning made them male and female,
\v 5 and said, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; and the two shall become
one flesh?
\v 6 So that they are no more two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder.
\v 7 They say to him, Why then did Moses command to give a bill of divorcement, and to put
her away?
\v 8 He says to them, Moses for your hardness of heart suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it has
not been so.
\v 9 And I say to you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth
adultery: and he that marrieth her when she is put away committeth adultery.
\v 10 The disciples say to him, If the case of the man is so with his wife, it is not expedient to marry.
\v 11 But he said to them, Not all men can receive this saying, but they to whom it is given.
\v 12 For there are eunuchs, that were so born from their mother’s womb: and there are eunuchs, that were made eunuchs by men:
and there are eunuchs, that made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven’s sake. He that is able to receive it, let him
receive it.
\p
\v 13 Then were there brought to him little children, that he should lay his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples
rebuked them.
\v 14 But Jesus said, Suffer the little children, and forbid them not, to come to me: for to such belongs the kingdom of
heaven.
\v 15 And he laid his hands on them, and departed thence.
\p
\v 16 And behold, one came to him and said, Teacher, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?
\v 17 And he said to him, Why asked you me concerning that which is good? One there is who is good: but if you would
enter into life, keep the commandments.
\v 18 He says to him, Which? And Jesus said, You shall not kill, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You
shall not bear false witness,
\v 19 Honor your father and your mother; and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
\v 20 The young man says to him, All these things have I observed: what lack I yet?
\v 21 Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go, sell that which you hast, and give to the poor, and you shall
have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
\v 22 But when the young man heard the saying, he went away sorrowful; for he was one that had great possessions.
\p
\v 23 And Jesus said to his disciples, Verily I say to you, It is hard for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven.
\v 24 And again I say to you, It is easier for a camel to go through a needle’s eye, than for a rich man to enter into the
kingdom of God.
\v 25 And when the disciples heard it, they were astonished exceedingly, saying, Who then can be saved?
\v 26 And Jesus looking upon them said to them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.
\v 27 Then answered Peter and said to him, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee; what then shall we have?
\v 28 And Jesus said to them, Verily I say to you, that you who have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man
shall sit on the throne of his glory, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
\v 29 And every one that has left houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands, for my name’s
sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit eternal life.
\v 30 But many shall be last that are first; and first
that are last.