\c 25
\p
\v 1 Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened to ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
\v 2 And five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
\v 3 For the foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them:
\v 4 but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
\v 5 Now while the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.
\v 6 But at midnight there is a cry, Behold, the bridegroom! Come you forth to meet him.
\v 7 Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
\v 8 And the foolish said to the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are going out.
\v 9 But the wise answered, saying, Peradventure there will not be enough for us and you: go you rather to them that sell, and
buy for yourselves.
\v 10 And while they went away to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage feast:
and the door was shut.
\v 11 Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
\v 12 But he answered and said, Verily I say to you, I know you not.
\v 13 Watch therefore, for you know not the day nor the hour.
\p
\v 14 For it is as when a man, going into another country, called his own servants, and delivered to them
his goods.
\v 15 And to one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his several ability; and he went
on his journey.
\v 16 Straightway he that received the five talents went and traded with them, and made other five talents.
\v 17 In like manner he also that received the two gained other two.
\v 18 But he that received the one went away and digged in the earth, and hid his lord’s money.
\v 19 Now after a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and makes a reckoning with them.
\v 20 And he that received the five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, you delivered to me five
talents: lo, I have gained other five talents.
\v 21 His lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant: you have been faithful over a few things, I will set you
over many things; enter you into the joy of your lord.
\v 22 And he also that received the two talents came and said, Lord, you delivered to me two talents: lo, I have
gained other two talents.
\v 23 His lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant: you have been faithful over a few things, I will set you
over many things; enter you into the joy of your lord.
\v 24 And he also that had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew you that you are a hard man, reaping where
you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter;
\v 25 and I was afraid, and went away and hid your talent in the earth: lo, you have your own.
\v 26 But his lord answered and said to him, You wicked and slothful servant, you knew that I reap where I sowed not,
and gather where I did not scatter;
\v 27 you ought therefore to have put my money to the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back mine own with
interest.
\v 28 Take you away therefore the talent from him, and give it to him that has the ten talents.
\v 29 For to every one that has shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that has not, even that which he
has shall be taken away.
\v 30 And cast you out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.
\p
\v 31 But when the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the angels with him, then shall he sit on the throne of his
glory:
\v 32 and before him shall be gathered all the nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as the shepherd separateth
the sheep from the goats;
\v 33 and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
\v 34 Then shall the King say to them on his right hand, Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you
from the foundation of the world:
\v 35 for I was hungry, and you gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me drink; I was a stranger, and you took me in;
\v 36 naked, and you clothed me; I was sick, and you visited me; I was in prison, and you came to me.
\v 37 Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we you hungry, and fed you? or athirst, and gave you
drink?
\v 38 And when saw we you a stranger, and took you in? or naked, and clothed you?
\v 39 And when saw we you sick, or in prison, and came to you?
\v 40 And the King shall answer and say to them, Verily I say to you, Inasmuch as you did it to one of these my brethren,
even these least, you did it to me.
\v 41 Then shall he say also to them on the left hand, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for
the devil and his angels:
\v 42 for I was hungry, and you did not give me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink;
\v 43 I was a stranger, and you took me not in; naked, and you clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and you visited me not.
\v 44 Then shall they also answer, saying, Lord, when saw we you hungry, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in
prison, and did not minister to thee?
\v 45 Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say to you, Inasmuch as you did it not to one of these least, you did it
not to me.
\v 46 And these shall go away into eternal punishment: but the righteous into eternal life.