\c 4
\p
\v 1 Nebuchadnezzar the king, to all the peoples, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth: Peace be multiplied
to you.
\v 2 It has seemed good to me to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has wrought toward me.
\v 3 How great are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from
generation to generation.
\p
\v 4 I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at rest in my house, and flourishing in my palace.
\v 5 I saw a dream which made me afraid; and the thoughts upon my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.
\v 6 Therefore made I a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon before me, that they might make known to me the
interpretation of the dream.
\v 7 Then came in the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers; and I told the dream before them; but they
did not make known to me the interpretation thereof.
\v 8 But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my god, and in whom is the
spirit of the holy gods: and I told the dream before him, saying,
\v 9 O Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret
troubleth thee, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and the interpretation thereof.
\v 10 Thus were the visions of my head upon my bed: I saw, and, behold, a tree in the midst of the earth; and the height
thereof was great.
\v 11 The tree grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reached to heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the
earth.
\v 12 The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it was food for all: the beasts of the field had shadow
under it, and the birds of the heavens lived in the branches thereof, and all flesh was fed from it.
\v 13 I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, behold, a watcher and a holy one came down from heaven.
\v 14 He cried aloud, and said thus, Hew down the tree, and cut off its branches, shake off its leaves, and scatter its fruit:
let the beasts get away from under it, and the fowls from its branches.
\v 15 Nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the
field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven: and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth:
\v 16 let his heart be changed from man’s, and let a beast’s heart be given to him; and let seven times pass over him.
\v 17 The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the holy ones; to the intent that the living
may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whoever he will, and sets up over it the
lowest of men.
\v 18 This dream I, king Nebuchadnezzar, have seen; and thou, O Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation, forasmuch as all the
wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known to me the interpretation; but you are able; for the spirit of the holy
gods is in thee.
\p
\v 19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was stricken dumb for a while, and his thoughts troubled him. The king answered
and said, Belteshazzar, let not the dream, or the interpretation, trouble thee. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, the
dream be to them that hate thee, and the interpretation thereof to your adversaries.
\v 20 The tree that you sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose height reached to heaven, and the sight thereof to all the
earth;
\v 21 whose leaves were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it was food for all; under which the beasts of the field
dwelt, and upon whose branches the birds of the heavens had their habitation:
\v 22 it is thou, O king, that are grown and become strong; for your greatness is grown, and reaches to heaven, and your
dominion to the end of the earth.
\v 23 And whereas the king saw a watcher and a holy one coming down from heaven, and saying, Hew down the tree, and destroy it;
nevertheless leave the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the
field, and let it be wet with the dew of heaven: and let his portion be with the beasts of the field, till seven times pass
over him;
\v 24 this is the interpretation, O king, and it is the decree of the Most High, which is come upon my lord the king:
\v 25 that you shall be driven from men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and you shall be made to eat
grass as oxen, and shall be wet with the dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over thee; till you know that the Most High
rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whoever he will.
\v 26 And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree; your kingdom shall be sure to thee, after that
you shall have known that the heavens do rule.
\v 27 Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to thee, and break off your sins by righteousness, and your iniquities
by showing mercy to the poor; if there may be a lengthening of your tranquillity.
\p
\v 28 All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar.
\v 29 At the end of twelve months he was walking in the royal palace of Babylon.
\v 30 The king spoke and said, Is not this great Babylon, which I have built for the royal dwelling-place, by the might of my
power and for the glory of my majesty?
\v 31 While the word was in the king’s mouth, there fell a voice from heaven,
saying, O king Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The kingdom is departed from you:
\v 32 and you shall be driven from men; and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field; you shall be made to eat
grass as oxen; and seven times shall pass over thee; until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and
gives it to whoever he will.
\v 33 The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and he was driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his
body was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hair was grown like eagles’
feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws.
\p
\v 34 And at the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up mine eyes to heaven, and mine understanding returned to me,
and I blessed the Most High, and I praised and honored him that lives for ever; for his dominion is an everlasting dominion,
and his kingdom from generation to generation;
\v 35 and all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing; and he does according to his will in the army of heaven,
and among the inhabitants of the earth; and none can stay his hand, or say to him, What do thou?
\v 36 At the same time mine understanding returned to me; and for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and brightness returned
to me; and my counselors and my lords sought to me; and I was established in my kingdom, and excellent greatness was added
to me.
\v 37 Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven; for all his works are truth, and his ways justice;
and those that walk in pride he is able to abase.