\c 5
\p
\v 1 Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords, and drank wine before the thousand.
\v 2 Belshazzar, while he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the golden and silver vessels which Nebuchadnezzar his father had
taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem; that the king and his lords, his wives and his concubines, might drink
therefrom.
\v 3 Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the
king and his lords, his wives and his concubines, drank from them.
\v 4 They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.
\p
\v 5 In the same hour came forth the fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaster of the
wall of the king’s palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.
\v 6 Then the king’s countenance was changed in him, and his thoughts troubled him; and the joints of his loins were loosed,
and his knees struck one against another.
\v 7 The king cried aloud to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. The king spoke and said to the wise
men of Babylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and show me the interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with purple, and
have a chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.
\v 8 Then came in all the king’s wise men; but they could not read the writing, nor make known to the king the interpretation.
\v 9 Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was changed in him, and his lords were perplexed.
\p
\v 10 Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lords came into the banquet house: the queen spoke
and said, O king, live forever; let not your thoughts trouble thee, nor let your countenance be changed.
\v 11 There is a man in your kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of your father light and
understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, were found in him; and the king Nebuchadnezzar your father, the king,
I say, your father, made him master of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;
\v 12 forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and showing of dark
sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called,
and he will show the interpretation.
\p
\v 13 Then was Daniel brought in before the king. The king spoke and said to Daniel, Are you that Daniel, who are of the
children of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of Judah?
\v 14 I have heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is in thee, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are
found in thee.
\v 15 And now the wise men, the enchanters, have been brought in before me, that they should read this writing, and make known
to me the interpretation thereof; but they could not show the interpretation of the thing.
\v 16 But I have heard of thee, that you can give interpretations, and dissolve doubts: now if you can read the writing,
and make known to me the interpretation thereof, you shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold about your neck,
and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.
\p
\v 17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let your gifts be to yourself, and give your rewards to another; nevertheless
I will read the writing to the king, and make known to him the interpretation.
\v 18 O you king, the Most High God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father the kingdom, and greatness, and glory, and majesty:
\v 19 and because of the greatness that he gave him, all the peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him:
whom he would he slew, and whom he would he kept alive; and whom he would he raised up, and whom he would he put down.
\v 20 But when his heart was lifted up, and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was deposed from his kingly
throne, and they took his glory from him:
\v 21 and he was driven from the sons of men, and his heart was made like the beasts’, and his dwelling was with the wild
asses; he was fed with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven; until he knew that the Most High God
rules in the kingdom of men, and that he sets up over it whoever he will.
\v 22 And you his son, O Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, yough you knew all this,
\v 23 but have lifted up yourself against the Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house before thee, and
you and your lords, your wives and your concubines, have drunk wine from them; and you have praised the gods of silver and gold,
of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor know; and the God in whose hand your breath is, and whose are all
your ways, have you not glorified.
\v 24 Then was the part of the hand sent from before him, and this writing was inscribed.
\p
\v 25 And this is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN.
\v 26 This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God has numbered your kingdom, and brought it to an end.
\v 27 TEKEL; you are weighed in the balances, and are found wanting.
\v 28 PERES; your kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes and Persians.
\p
\v 29 Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with purple, and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made
proclamation concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.
\p
\v 30 In that night Belshazzar the Chaldean King was slain.
\v 31 And Darius the Mede received the kingdom, being about threescore and two years old.