\c 8
\p
\v 1 In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a vision appeared to me, even to me, Daniel, after that which
appeared to me at the first.
\v 2 And I saw in the vision; now it was so, that when I saw, I was in Shushan the palace, which is in the province of Elam;
and I saw in the vision, and I was by the river Ulai.
\v 3 Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns: and the two
horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last.
\v 4 I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; and no beasts could stand before him, neither was there any
that could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and magnified himself.
\p
\v 5 And as I was considering, behold, a he-goat came from the west over the face of the whole earth, and touched not the
ground: and the goat had a notable horn between his eyes.
\v 6 And he came to the ram that had the two horns, which I saw standing before the river, and ran upon him in the fury of his
power.
\v 7 And I saw him come close to the ram, and he was moved with anger against him, and struck the ram, and brake his two
horns; and there was no power in the ram to stand before him; but he cast him down to the ground, and trampled upon him; and
there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand.
\v 8 And the he-goat magnified himself exceedingly: and when he was strong, the great horn was broken; and instead of it there
came up four notable horns toward the four winds of heaven.
\p
\v 9 And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and
toward the glorious land.
\v 10 And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and some of the host and of the stars it cast down to the ground, and
trampled upon them.
\v 11 Yea, it magnified itself, even to the prince of the host; and it took away from him the continual
burnt-offering, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down.
\v 12 And the host was given over to it together with the continual
burnt offering through transgression; and it cast down truth to the ground, and it did
its pleasure and prospered.
\v 13 Then I heard a holy one speaking; and another holy one said to that certain one who spake, How long shall be the vision
concerning the continual burnt-offering, and the transgression that makes desolate, to give both the
sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot?
\v 14 And he said to me, To two thousand and three hundred evenings
and mornings; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.
\p
\v 15 And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, that I sought to understand it; and, behold, there stood
before me as the appearance of a man.
\v 16 And I heard a man’s voice between the banks of the Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to
understand the vision.
\v 17 So he came near where I stood; and when he came, I was affrighted, and fell upon my face: but he said to me,
Understand, O son of man; for the vision belongs to the time of the end.
\v 18 Now as he was speaking with me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face toward the ground; but he touched me, and set me
upright.
\v 19 And he said, Behold, I will make you know what shall be in the latter time of the indignation; for it belongs to the
appointed time of the end.
\v 20 The ram which you sawest, that had the two horns, they are the kings of Media and Persia.
\v 21 And the rough he-goat is the king of Greece: and the great horn that is between his eyes is the first king.
\v 22 And as for that which was broken, in the place whereof four stood up, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but
not with his power.
\v 23 And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors are come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and
understanding dark sentences, shall stand up.
\v 24 And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper and do
his pleasure; and he shall destroy the mighty ones and the holy people.
\v 25 And through his policy he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and in
their security shall he destroy many: he shall also stand up against the prince of princes; but he shall be broken
without hand.
\v 26 And the vision of the evenings and mornings which has been told is true: but shut you up the vision; for it belongs
to many days to come.
\v 27 And I, Daniel, fainted, and was sick certain days; then I rose up, and did the king’s business: and I wondered at the
vision, but none understood it.