\c 9
\p
\v 1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, who was made king over the realm of the
Chaldeans,
\v 2 in the first year of his reign I, Daniel, understood by the books the number of the years whereof the word of Jehovah came
to Jeremiah the prophet, for the accomplishing of the desolations of Jerusalem, even seventy years.
\p
\v 3 And I set my face to the Lord God, to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.
\v 4 And I prayed to Jehovah my God, and made confession, and said, Oh, Lord, the great and dreadful God, who keeps
covenant and lovingkindness with them that love him and keep his commandments,
\v 5 we have sinned, and have dealt perversely, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even turning aside from your precepts
and from your ordinances;
\v 6 neither have we listened to your servants the prophets, that spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our
fathers, and to all the people of the land.
\v 7 O Lord, righteousness belongs to thee, but to us confusion of face, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, that are near, and that are far off, through all the countries whither you have
driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against thee.
\v 8 O Lord, to us belongs confusion of face, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned
against thee.
\v 9 To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgiveness; for we have rebelled against him;
\v 10 neither have we obeyed the voice of Jehovah our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the
prophets.
\v 11 Yea, all Israel have transgressed your law, even turning aside, that they should not obey your voice: therefore has the
curse been poured out upon us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God; for we have sinned against
him.
\v 12 And he has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us, and against our judges that judged us, by bringing upon us a
great evil; for under the whole heaven has not been done as has been done upon Jerusalem.
\v 13 As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come upon us: yet have we not entreated the favor of Jehovah our
God, that we should turn from our iniquities, and have discernment in your truth.
\v 14 Therefore has Jehovah watched over the evil, and brought it upon us; for Jehovah our God is righteous in all his works
which he doeth, and we have not obeyed his voice.
\v 15 And now, O Lord our God, that have brought your people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have gotten
you renown, as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly.
\v 16 O Lord, according to all your righteousness, let your anger and your wrath, I pray thee, be turned away from your city
Jerusalem, your holy mountain; because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people are become
a reproach to all that are round about us.
\v 17 Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant, and to his supplications, and cause your face to shine
upon your sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord’s sake.
\v 18 O my God, incline your ear, and hear; open your eyes, and behold our desolations, and the city which is called by your
name: for we do not present our supplications before you for our righteousnesses, but for your great mercies’ sake.
\v 19 O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, listen and do; defer not, for your own sake, O my God, because your city and your
people are called by your name.
\p
\v 20 And while I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my
supplication before Jehovah my God for the holy mountain of my God;
\v 21 yea, while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly
swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation.
\v 22 And he instructed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I am now come forth to give you wisdom and understanding.
\v 23 At the beginning of your supplications the commandment went forth, and I am come to tell thee; for you are greatly
beloved: therefore consider the matter, and understand the vision.
\p
\v 24 Seventy weeks are decreed upon your people and upon your holy city, to finish transgression, and to make an end of sins,
and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up vision and prophecy, and to
anoint the most holy.
\v 25 Know therefore and discern, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem to the
anointed one, the prince, shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: it shall be built again, with street and moat,
even in troublous times.
\v 26 And after the threescore and two weeks shall the anointed one be cut off, and shall have nothing: and the people of the
prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary; and the end thereof shall be with a flood, and even to the
end shall be war; desolations are determined.
\v 27 And he shall make a firm covenant with many for one week: and in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and
the oblation to cease; and upon the wing of abominations shall
come one that makes desolate; and even to the full end, and that determined, shall
wrath be poured out upon the desolate.