\c 1
\p
\v 1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the elect who are sojourners of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia,
and Bithynia,
\v 2 according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in sanctification of the Spirit, to obedience and sprinkling of the
blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace be multiplied.
\b
\p
\v 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy became the father of us again to a
living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
\v 4 to an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fades not away, reserved in heaven for you,
\v 5 who by the power of God are guarded through faith to a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
\v 6 Wherein you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been put to grief in manifold trials,
\v 7 that the proof of your faith, being more precious than gold that perishes though it is proved by fire, may be
found to praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ:
\v 8 whom not having seen you love; on whom, though now you see him not, yout believing, you rejoice greatly with joy unspeakable
and full of glory:
\v 9 receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of
your souls.
\v 10 Concerning which salvation the prophets sought and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that
should come to you:
\v 11 searching what time or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did point unto, when it
testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glories that should follow them.
\v 12 To whom it was revealed, that not to themselves, but to you, did they minister these things, which now have been
announced to you through them that preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent forth from heaven; which things
angels desire to look into.
\p
\v 13 Wherefore girding up the loins of your mind, be sober and set your hope perfectly on the grace that is to be brought to
you at the revelation of Jesus Christ;
\v 14 as children of obedience, not fashioning yourselves according to your former lusts in
the time of your ignorance:
\v 15 but like as he who called you is holy, be you yourselves also holy in all manner of living;
\v 16 because it is written, You shall be holy; for I am holy.
\v 17 And if you call on him as Father, who without respect of persons judges according to each man’s work, pass the time of
your sojourning in fear:
\v 18 knowing that you were redeemed, not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, from your vain manner of life handed
down from your fathers;
\v 19 but with precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot,
even the blood of Christ:
\v 20 who was foreknown indeed before the foundation of the world, but was manifested at the end of the times for your sake,
\v 21 who through him are believers in God, that raised him from the dead, and gave him glory; so that your faith and hope
might be in God.
\v 22 Seeing you have purified your souls in your obedience to the truth to unfeigned love of the brethren, love one another
from the heart fervently:
\v 23 having been begotten again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, through the word of God, which lives and
abideth.
\v 24 For, All flesh is as grass, And all the glory thereof as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower
falleth:
\v 25 But the word of the Lord remains for ever. And this is the word of good tidings which was preached to you.