\c 3
\s 1 Corinthians 3:1-4
\sr I was unable to teach you difficult concepts, because you were controlled by your self-directed nature, as evidenced by your quarreling about which leader to whom you are loyal.
\p
\v 1 My fellow believers, when I was with you previously, I was not able to teach you as I would teach people who are controlled by the Holy Spirit . Instead, I had to teach you as I would teach people whom their self-directed nature controls. I taught very simple concepts to you who had recently believed in Christ, as a parent would speak very simple words to a baby.
\v 2 I did not teach you things that were difficult for you to understand, just like a woman does not give her baby solid food that the baby cannot chew and digest. And just like a woman gives her baby milk, I taught you simple spiritual concepts, because at that time you were not able to understand difficult things. And you are still not able to understand difficult concepts,
\v 3 because you are still controlled by your self-directed nature. Some of you are jealous and quarreling. That shows that your self-directed nature is controlling you! It shows that you are acting like unbelievers act.
\v 4 By some of you saying, "I am loyal to Paul," and others saying, "I am loyal to Apollos," you show that you are acting like unbelievers.
\s 1 Corinthians 3:5-9a
\sr I preached the gospel to you first, and Apollos followed, but we are both serving God equally.
\p
\v 5 So what you really ought to think about Apollos and me  is that we(dl) are merely men who serve God. As a result of our telling you the message about Christ, you trusted in him. Both of us(dl) are merely doing the work that the Lord appointed us to do.
\v 6 I was the first one who preached God's message to you. I was like  someone who waters plants after they start to grow. But it is God who enables people to grow spiritually, just like he is the one who causes plants to grow.
\v 7 So the person who first preaches God's message to people is not important, and the person who later teaches people more of God's message is not important, just like  it is not the person who plants the seeds or the person who waters the plants who is important. Instead, it is God, who causes plants to growand who causes people to grow spiritually, who is important.
\v 8 The person who first preaches God's message to people and the one who later teaches them more of God's message . And God will reward each of them according to how they served him.
\v 9 Remember that Apollos and I are both working together for God. You do not belong to us. Just like a field belongs to its owner, not to those who work in it, you belong to God, not to us who work for him.
\s 1 Corinthians 3:9b-15
\sr Each one who teaches believers must examine what he is teaching them because God will reward him only if his teaching is valuable and long-lasting.
\p Also, a house belongs to its owner. It does not belong to the man who built it. Similarly, God is the one to whom you belong.
\v 10 Just like a skilled person puts a foundation in the ground before he builds a house, as a result of God kindly helping me , each person who teaches God's truth must be careful about what he teaches.
\v 11 Just like people can put in only one foundation for a house , there is only one message that we can give to people. That message is about Jesus Christ.
\v 12 Furthermore, people can build a house on its foundation with materials that are valuable and do not burn easily, such as gold, silver, and expensive jewels. Or they could build a house with materials that are not valuable and that burn easily, such as wood, hay, and straw.
\v 13 Later it will become clear.
\v 14 When a fire starts burning a house, it becomes clear whether the builders used materials in their work that will burn, or materials that will not burn. Similarly . Similarly, if we have taught others things that are valuable and long-lasting, God will give us a reward.
\v 15 If the things that we have taught are not valuable and long-lasting  from hell, but that is all that we will get. We will be like a man who escapes from a fire without saving any of his possessions.
\s 1 Corinthians 3:16-17
\sr God will destroy anyone who destroys the unity of a congregation.
\p
\v 16 You need to remember that God is present among you God's Spirit lives within you.
\v 17 So, just like God will destroy anyone who tries to destroy his Temple, he will destroy anyone who destroys the unity of a congregation. He will do that because he has set you, his people, apart for himself, just like he set his Temple apart for himself.
\s 1 Corinthians 3:18-23
\sr Stop being proud about one Christian leader or another, because we are all just working for your benefit.
\p
\v 18 Some among you think that you are wise because unbelievers thought you were wise previously. Stop deceiving yourselves. If you really want to be wise, by accepting what God considers to be wise you should be willing to let unbelievers consider that you are foolish .
\v 19 You should do that because things that unbelievers consider to be  wise, God considers to be foolish. We can learn from the Scriptureswhat God says about that,
\q Those who think that they are  wise, he messes up their plans by the mistakes they make!
\p
\v 20 And we can learn from these words of Scripture,
\q The Lord considers as useless the thoughts of humans who think that they are  wise.
\p
\v 21 So stop boasting about how good one Christian leader is or how good another Christian leader is! All of us exist as leaders only to help you!
\v 22 Specifically, do not boast about me, or about Apollos, or about Peter! Everything in the world exists to benefit you believers. Whether you live or whether you die, the things that are happening now or the things that will happen in the future, they are all to benefit you.
\v 23 You should boast about Christ, not about your leaders, because you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God.
