\c 4
\s 1 Corinthians 4:1-7
\sr Stop judging your leaders' value; do not be proud of one and despise another.
\p
\v 1 So, people ought to consider us apostles  the work of telling others the message that God has now revealed to us.
\v 2 With respect to doing that, those who are given work are required  to do that work faithfully.
\v 3 I am not concerned whether you or the judges in some court decide whether I have done my work faithfully or not. I do not even judge myself about that.
\v 4 I do not think that I have done anything wrong, but that does not prove that I have done nothing wrong. The Lord is the one who judges me.
\v 5 So stop judging any of us! Do not judge us before the Lord comes. He is the one who will reveal the sinful things that people have done secretly. He will even reveal what people have thought in their minds. At that time God will praise each person aseach one of them deserves.
\p
\v 6 My fellow believers, I have told you all these things as illustrations of myself and Apollos. I have done this for your sake, in order that you may learn to live according to the saying, "Do not act contrary to what is  written in the Scriptures." If you follow that rule, you will not be proud of one spiritual leader and despise another.
\v 7 No one has made any of you superior to others!
\s 1 Corinthians 4:8-13
\sr It is disgusting that you are so proud of your spiritual gifts and that you despise us apostles.
\p
\v 8 It is disgusting that you act as though  you had already begun to rule as kings with Christ. Well, I wish that you really were ruling with him, in order that we apostles might also rule with you!
\v 9 But it seems as though God has put us apostles on display at the end of the line. We are like men who have been condemned to die, who have been put in the arena where everyone can see the wild animals killing them. And not only people, but even angels all over the world are watching us, as people watch those who are performing a play in a theater.
\v 10 Many people consider us to be  to be unimpressive, but you proudly think that you impress others. People respect you, but they do not respect us.
\v 11 Up to this present time we have often been hungry. We have often been thirsty. We have ragged clothes. Often we have been beaten . We have traveled so much that we have no regular homes to live in.
\v 12 We work very hard to earn a living. When we are cursed by people , we endure it.
\v 13 When we are slandered by people , as though we were garbage and a rubbish heap.
\s 1 Corinthians 4:14-17
\sr Imitate the way in which I serve Christ.
\p
\v 14 I am writing this to you, not to make you feel ashamed, but instead to warn you as though you were my dear children.
\v 15 I say that because as an apostle of Christ Jesus I was the first one who proclaimed the good message to you. As a result, I was the one who enabled you to receive eternal life. So even if there were thousands of Christians who instruct you , I am the only one who became like a father to you.
\v 16 So I urge you to live for Christ the way I do.
\v 17 In order to help you do that, I have sent the Lord. The way I conduct my life is the same as how I teach others to live in all the congregations to whom I have spoken.
\s 1 Corinthians 4:18-21
\sr I hope you will change your thinking, so I do not have to punish you when I come there.
\p
\v 18 Some of you have become proud, thinking that I will not come there to rebuke your congregation about what they are doing.
\v 19 But if the Lord wants me to come, I will come to you soon. Then I will not pay any attention to what those proud people say. Instead, I will find out whether they have God's power.
\v 20 Remember that God judges whether or not we are letting him rule our lives, not by listening to how we talk, but by seeing whether his power is present among us.
\v 21 So which do you prefer? Do you want me to come to you and punish you because you have not changed your ways, or shall I come to you and act lovingly and gently toward you because you have done what I told you to do?
