\c 5
\s 1 Corinthians 5:1-5
\sr You should expel the man in your congregation who has acted so immorally.
\p
\v 1  Now I want to discuss another matter. It has been .
\v 2 You should be sad about what that man is doing! He should have been expelled  
\v 3 As for me, I have already decided  how you should punish that man. And even though I am away from you, my spirit is with you, and you should do as I would do if I were there with you. 
\v 4  What I have decided is that when you have gathered together with the authority  of our Lord Jesus, and my spirit is with you, and the power of our Lord Jesus  is with you, 
\v 5 you should put that man into Satan's hands. Then Satan can injure.
\s 1 Corinthians 5:6-8
\sr Make sure that no one in your congregation is acting immorally or maliciously or wickedly.
\p
\v 6 It is not good that, while you are letting that immoral man continue to be in your congregation, you are boasting  about being spiritually mature. You know that a small amount of yeast affects all the bread dough  Similarly, one person who continues to sin will have a bad effect on all the congregation. 
\v 7 So, just like we Jews expel the old yeast  from our houses during the Passover celebration in order that we may have a fresh batch of dough without yeast in it  so that God could spare us from being punished for our sins, just like the Jews sacrificed lambs during the  first Passover celebration  so that God would spare their firstborn sons from being killed. 
\v 8 So let us celebrate  the fact that God has freed us from punishing us for our sins  that those in our congregations are ones who act sincerely and  speak truthfully.
\s 1 Corinthians 5:9-13
\sr Expel wicked people from your congregation.
\p
\v 9 In the previous letter that I wrote to you, I said that you should not associate with sexually immoral people. 
\v 10 I did not mean that you should not associate with unbelievers who are immoral, or who desire things that belong to others, or who forcefully seize things that belong to others, or who worship idols. You would have to leave this world  to avoid all people like that. 
\v 11 But now  I am stating clearly that when I wrote, I  meant that you should not associate with those who say that they are fellow believers, if they are sexually immoral or if they desire and forcefully seize things that belong to others, or worship idols, or slander others, or become drunk. You should not associate with people like that, and you should not even eat with them! 
\v 12 It is certainly not  your business to judge those who are in  your congregation. 
\v 13 God is the one who will judge those who are not believers. Do as the Scriptures command:  "Expel the wicked person from your midst!"
