\c 12
\s 1 Corinthians 12:1-3
\sr It is only God's Spirit who enables people to say that Jesus is Lord.
\p
\v 1 Now, my fellow believers, I will answer what you asked about the things God's Spirit enables believers to do. I want you to know clearly  about these things.
\v 2 You know that before you became Christians, various things led you to worship idols, which are unable to tell you any of God's message.
\v 3 So the first thing that I will tell you now is that it is not the Spirit of God who would cause anyone to say, "Jesus deserved to die," and that the Holy Spirit is the only one who can enable anyone to say, "Jesus is truly the Lord."
\s 1 Corinthians 12:4-11
\sr God's Spirit gives believers special abilities as he desires.
\p
\v 4 There are various things that God's Spirit enables us believers to do, but it is that same Spirit who enables all of us to do them.
\v 5 There are many different ways to serve the Lord, but it is the same Lord whom we all are serving.
\v 6 We believers have the power to do various tasks, but it is the same God who gives all of us the power to do these things.
\p
\v 7 God's Spirit gives his power to each believer in order to benefit all the other believers.
\v 8 To some, the Spirit gives the ability to speak very wise messages. To others, the same Spirit gives the ability to know things that he reveals to them.
\v 9 To others, the same Spirit gives the ability to believe that God will work miracles. To others, the Spirit gives the ability to heal sick people.
\v 10 To others, he gives the power to perform miracles. To others, he gives the ability to speak messages that come directly from God. To others, he gives the ability to tell if a message is really from God or not. To others he gives the ability to speak messages in languages .
\v 11 It is the same one Spirit who gives all these abilities. He gives whatever abilities he wants to give, to whatever person he wants to give them.
\s 1 Corinthians 12:12-31
\sr A congregation needs all the abilities that God's Spirit gives to its members, but you should especially desire the ones that help others the most.
\p
\v 12 Although a person's body has many parts, all the parts form just one body . It is like that with those who belong to Christ.
\v 13 When we were baptized  within all of us.
\p
\v 14 Our bodies do not have only one part. They have many parts with various functions.
\v 15 If our foot could talk and say to us, "Because I am not your hand, I am not a part of your body," it would still be a part of our body.
\v 16 If our ear could talk and say, "Because I am not your eye, I am not a part of your body," it would still be a part of our body.
\v 17 If our body were only an eye, we would not be able to hear.
\v 18 But the truth is that God has put all the parts of our bodies together exactly as he wanted to put them.
\v 19 If our body had only one part, it would not be a body.
\v 20 But the truth is that there are many parts in our body, but it is still only one body.
\v 21 That is why if our eye could talk, it should never say to our hand, "I do not need you!" And if our head could talk, it should not say to our feet, "I do not need you!"
\v 22 Instead, the parts of our body that seem to be weaker are the ones that are absolutely necessary.
\v 23 And the parts that we do not think highly of are the parts that we clothe carefully. And we protect carefully those parts that we do not show to people.
\v 24 The parts that are all right to show people, we do not need to protect. Instead, God, who has put all the parts of our bodies together, causes us to care for in a special way the parts that we think are less important.
\v 25 He does that in order that all the parts of our body will work together harmoniously , and so that all the parts will care for all the other parts equally.
\v 26 If one part of our body hurts, it is as though all the parts of our body are hurting. If we pay special attention to one part of our body, it is as though all the parts of our body feel pleasure .
\p
\v 27 Everything I have just said about how the parts of our bodies relate to each other applies to how all of you who belong to Christ should relate to each other. Each of you belongs to him, but you have not all been given the same abilities and work.
\v 28 God has placed apostles in our congregations. Apostles are first in rank. Next in rank are those who speak messages which come directly from God. Next in rank are those who teach spiritual truth. Then there are those who have the power to work miracles, those who have the ability to heal sick people, those who have the ability to help others, those who have the ability to govern the affairs of the congregation, and those who have the ability to speak messages in languages  that they have not learned.
\v 29 Certainly not all believers are apostles.
\v 30 They do not all have the ability to heal people. Certainly not!
\v 31 But you should eagerly desire to have the abilities that will help other believers the most (OR, the abilities that God considers to be the most important). But now I will tell you the best way to use the abilities that God's Spirit has given you.
