\c 13
\s 1 Corinthians 13:1-13
\sr We should use the abilities that God's Spirit has given us in ways that show that we love others.
\p
\v 1 If we could speak  all the various languages  that people  in the world speak and even speak  the language that angels  speak, if we did not love  others, speaking those languages would be  as useless as beating a brass gong or clanging cymbals  together. 
\v 2 If we had the ability to speak messages that come directly from God, and if we could understand the plans that he has not yet revealed  to others, and if we could know everything  about everything, and if we believed in God so strongly that we could  do impossible things like causing mountains to move, if we did not love  others, God would consider all that to be worthless. 
\v 3 If we would give everything that we own to poor people, and if we would let others kill us in order that we could boast about  sacrificing our own bodies, if we did not love  others, we would not get any reward  from God.
\p
\v 4 Those who  truly love  others are not jealous of them, they do not boast  about what they themselves have done, and are not proud. 
\v 5 Those who . They do not quickly become angry. They do not keep remembering the bad things  that others have done to them. 
\v 6 Those who  truly love  others do not rejoice when  people do evil things, but they do rejoice when  people act righteously. 
\v 7 Those who truly love  others patiently endure  the faults of others. They do not quickly assume  that others have done something bad. They confidently expect  that others will act righteously. They patiently endure  all their own troubles.
\p
\v 8 We should never  that we have not learned, that will  also come to an end some day. And as for the ability to know things that God reveals to us, that will come to an end some day  because it will not be necessary anymore. 
\v 9 God does not reveal everything to us, and we cannot know everything that he knows. 
\v 10 But when everything is perfect  after Christ returns, things which are not perfect  now, such as the abilities which God's Spirit gives us, will be abolished. 
\v 11 When we were children, we talked like children talk, we thought like children think, we reasoned like children reason. But when we grew up, we got rid of our childish ways . Similarly, you need to get rid of your childish thinking about the abilities that the Spirit has given you. 
\v 12 In this life we do not understand everything fully. It is like , we will  understand everything clearly. It will be like talking to someone face-to-face. Now we know only part  of everything that God wants us to know. Then we will know everything completely, just like  God knows us completely. 
\v 13 So now there are three things  that we must continue  to do: To trust  in God, to confidently expect  to receive what he will give us, and to love  others. But the greatest of those three things is loving  others.
