\c 15
\s 1 Corinthians 15:1-11
\sr I was not worthy to become an apostle, but the Lord Jesus committed to me the message about his death and resurrection.
\p
\v 1 Now, my fellow believers, I want to remind you about the message about Christ that I preached to you. It is the message that you received and that you have continued to trust firmly.
\v 2 If you keep on firmlybelieving this message that I preached to you, you will be saved !
\p
\v 3 The most important part of the message that I received from the Lord Jesus, and that I told you, was this: Christ died to take away the guilt of our sins, as the Scriptures said that he would do.
\v 4 His body was buried  again, as the Scriptures said would happen.
\v 5 After that, Christ was seen by  Peter. Then he appeared to ten of the twelve apostles.
\v 6 Later he was seen by .
\v 7 Then he was seen by  his younger brother James, who became the leader of the congregation in Jerusalem. Then he appeared to all of the apostles.
\v 8 Finally, he was seen by .
\v 9 The fact is, I consider that I am the least important of the apostles. I do not deserve to be an apostle, because I persecuted God's groups of believers everywhere I went.
\v 10 But it is because God acted kindly toward me in ways that I did not deserve that I became what I am now. And his acting kindly toward me produced a great result , which is that I worked harder for Christ than all the other apostles. But it was not that I was working with my own ability. Instead, God was helping me in a way I did not deserve.
\v 11 So it does not matter whether it was I who was preaching or whether it was the other apostles who were preaching. We all preached the same message, and that message is what you believed.
\s 1 Corinthians 15:12-34
\sr Christ has truly risen from the dead, and he will some day raise all believers.
\p
\v 12 So now let me ask you this: Since we have all preached to you that Christ was raised again 
\v 13 If it is true that God will not cause anyone to become alive again, that situation would mean that Christ was not raised from the dead !
\v 14 And if Christ was not raised from the dead , then what we preached to you was useless, and your believing in Christ is useless.
\v 15 If it is true that no one will be raised from the dead  have been guilty of lying to you about God, because we told you that God caused Christ to become alive again.
\v 16 But if it were really true that no one who has died will raised  again either!
\v 17 If it were true that Christ was not raised  your sins.
\v 18 And those people who died  while they were trusting in Christ will go to hell.
\v 19 In this life many of us have suffered much for Christ because we confidently expect that he will reward us in heaven. If we have confidently expected this in vain, people should pity us more than they pity anyone else!
\p
\v 20 But the truth is that Christ has been raised from the dead  to become alive again.
\v 21 What one man, Adam, did affects us all. We all die. Similarly, what one man—Christ—did affects us all: God will cause all believers to become alive again.
\v 22 Because of what Adam did, all of us who are descended from him die. Similarly, because of what Christ did, all of us who have a close relationship with him will be made  alive after we die.
\v 23 But we must all take our turn. God raised Christ first . And when Christ returns, God will cause those who belong to Christ to become alive again.
\v 24 Then, after Christ has destroyed all  the evil powers that oppose God, the world will end. Then Christ will give to God, his Father, his kingdom to completely rule over it.
\v 25 You must realize that Christ must rule over that kingdom until he has completely defeated  all his enemies.
\v 26 The last thing that he will get rid of is death. But he certainly will get rid of death, which is like an enemy to us.
\v 27 In the Scriptures the Psalmist wrote that God will cause everything to be under Christ's authority .
\v 28 After everything is put under the authority of God's Son, then he will put himself completely under the authority of God, the one who gave him that authority. Then God will be completely in control of everything , everywhere.
\p
\v 29 Now think about this: Some among you are being baptized 
\v 30 Furthermore, if God will not cause us believers to become alive again, it is  very foolish for me and the other apostles to be constantly putting ourselves in danger because we tell people God's good message!
\v 31 My fellow believers, every day I am in danger of being killed ! That is as true as it is that I am pleased with you because of your close relationship with Christ Jesus our Lord.
\v 32 If God will not cause us believers to become alive again after we die, I will receive no benefit at all from having opposed those who attacked me so strongly in Ephesus city., we might as well say as people often say: "Tomorrow we are going to die, so we might as well enjoy now everything that we can. We might as well feast and get drunk!"
\v 33 Do not let yourselves be deceived by those who say that God will not cause believers to live again .
\v 34 Start thinking correctly again about these matters, as you should, and stop your sinful behavior which has resulted from your wrong thinking. I say that because it seems that some among you do not know God, and as a result theyhave this wrong thinking. I say that to make you ashamed.
\s 1 Corinthians 15:35-58
\sr In heaven we will have glorious indestructible bodies.
\p
\v 35 But some of you are asking, "How will dead people be raised  again? What kind of bodies will they have?"
\v 36 Anyone who asks such questions is foolish. You know that a seed that is planted in the ground must completely change its form  before it sprouts.
\v 37 A seed, such as a wheat seed, is very different from the plant that sprouts from it.
\v 38 God gives everything that lives the form that he desires. He gives each seed its own form.
\v 39 Similarly, people, animals, birds, and fish all have flesh, but each one has a different kind of flesh.
\v 40 Also, there are angelic beings in heaven  are beautiful in one way, and people on earth are beautiful in a different way.
\v 41 The sun is bright in one way, and the moon is bright in a different way, and the stars are bright in a different way. And even the various stars are different from each other in how bright they are.
\p
\v 42 And it is the same way with our bodies. The bodies that we will have when God causes us to live again after we die will not be the same as the bodies that we have now . The bodies that we have now will die and decay. The new bodies that we will have will never die.
\v 43 We despise the bodies that we have now, before we die. But our new bodies will be glorious. The bodies that we have before we die are weak. But our new bodies will be strong.
\v 44 The bodies that we have before we die are natural bodies. But our new bodies will be ones that God's Spirit controls.
\p
\v 45 In the Scriptures it is written  that when the first man, Adam, was created, he became a living human being. Christ later also became a human being. Buthe is different from Adam, because he became a person who gives us spiritual life.
\v 46 But our bodies that God's Spirit will completely control are not the first bodies that we have. We have our natural bodies first.
\v 47 The first man, Adam, was created  from the dust of the earth. But Christ, the one who came later, came from heaven.
\v 48 Everyone on earth has a body like the first man on the earth had. And in heaven, everyone will have a body like Christ, the man who came from heaven, has.
\v 49 And just like God gave us bodies like the first man on earth had, so we believers will have bodies like Christ has, who is now in heaven.
\p
\v 50 My fellow believers, I want you to know that we cannot go to heaven, where God rules over everything, with our physical bodies, because our bodies cannot last forever. They will die and decay.
\v 51 But I will tell you something that God has not revealed before: Some of us believers will not die .
\v 52 It will happen suddenly, as fast as someone can blink his eye , bodies that will never decay.
\v 53 And the bodies of us who are alive at that time will also be changed  getting rid of his old clothes and putting on new ones.
\v 54 When that happens, what is written  in the Scriptures will come true, Or: happen,
\p God will completely get rid of  death. Our dying will no longer have any power to defeat us;
\v 55 Death  will not win a victory over us. Death will not be able to hurt us.
\p
\v 56 It is because we sin  that we die, and it is because we have God's laws that we know that we have sinned.
\v 57 But because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done, he enables us to be free from having to obey God's laws to be saved and to be free of being afraid to die. We should thank God for that!
\p
\v 58 So, my fellow believers whom I love, continue to hold strongly to the things that you believe. Do not let anything cause you to doubt them. Always be doing enthusiastically the work that the Lord gives you. And remember that the work that you do for the Lord is never in vain, as it would be if God will not cause us to live again after we die.
