\c 1
\p
\v 1 Now it came to pass after the death of Moses the servant of Jehovah, that Jehovah spoke to Joshua the son of Nun, Moses’
minister, saying,
\v 2 Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou, and all this people, to the land which I do
give to them, even to the children of Israel.
\v 3 Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, to you have I given it, as I spoke to Moses.
\v 4 From the wilderness, and this Lebanon, even to the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and
to the great sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your border.
\v 5 There shall not any man be able to stand before you all the days of your life; as I was with Moses, so I will be with
thee; I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.
\v 6 Be strong and of good courage; for you shall cause this people to inherit the land which I sware to their fathers to
give them.
\v 7 Only be strong and very courageous, to observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn
not from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever you goest.
\v 8 This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth, but you shall meditate thereon day and night, that you may
observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then you shall make your way prosperous, and then you shall have
good success.
\v 9 Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage; be not affrighted, neither be you dismayed: for Jehovah your God
is with you wherever you goest.
\p
\v 10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,
\v 11 Pass through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, Prepare you victuals; for within three days you are to
pass over this Jordan, to go in to possess the land, which Jehovah your God gives you to possess it.
\p
\v 12 And to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, spoke Joshua, saying,
\v 13 Remember the word which Moses the servant of Jehovah commanded you, saying, Jehovah your God gives you rest, and will
give you this land.
\v 14 Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle, shall abide in the land which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan; but you
shall pass over before your brethren armed, all the mighty men of valor, and shall help them;
\v 15 until Jehovah have given your brethren rest, as he has given
you, and they also have possessed the land which Jehovah your God gives them: then you shall return to the land of your
possession, and possess it, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrising.
\v 16 And they answered Joshua, saying, All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will
go.
\v 17 According as we listened to Moses in all things, so will we listen to thee: only Jehovah your God be with thee, as
he was with Moses.
\v 18 Whosoever he be that shall rebel against your commandment, and shall not listen to your words in all that you
command him, he shall be put to death: only be strong and of good courage.