\c 2
\p
\v 1 And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shittim two men as spies secretly, saying, Go, view the land, and Jericho. And they
went and came into the house of a harlot whose name was Rahab, and lay there.
\v 2 And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there came men in hither tonight of the children of Israel to search
out the land.
\v 3 And the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee, that are entered into your
house; for they are come to search out all the land.
\v 4 And the woman took the two men, and hid them; and she said, Yea, the men came to me, but I knew not whence they were:
\v 5 and it came to pass about the time of the shutting of the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out; whither the men
went I know not: pursue after them quickly; for you will overtake them.
\v 6 But she had brought them up to the roof, and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof.
\v 7 And the men pursued after them the way to the Jordan to the fords: and as soon as they that pursued after them were gone
out, they shut the gate.
\p
\v 8 And before they were laid down, she came up to them upon the roof;
\v 9 and she said to the men, I know that Jehovah has given you the land, and that the fear of you is fallen upon us, and
that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you.
\v 10 For we have heard how Jehovah dried up the water of the Red Sea before you, when you came out of Egypt; and what you did
to the two kings of the Amorites, that were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and to Og, whom you utterly destroyoud.
\v 11 And as soon as we had heard it, our hearts did melt, neither did there remain any more spirit in any man, because of you:
for Jehovah your God, he is God in heaven above, and on earth beneath.
\v 12 Now therefore, I pray you, swear to me by Jehovah, since I have dealt kindly with you, that you also will deal kindly
with my father’s house, and give me a true token;
\v 13 and that you will save alive my father, and my mother, and my brethren, and my sisters, and all that they have, and will
deliver our lives from death.
\v 14 And the men said to her, Our life for yours, if you utter not this our business; and it shall be, when Jehovah gives us
the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee.
\p
\v 15 Then she let them down by a cord through the window: for her house was upon the side of the wall, and she lived upon the
wall.
\v 16 And she said to them, Get you to the mountain, lest the pursuers light upon you; and hide yourselves there three days,
until the pursuers be returned: and afterward may you go your way.
\v 17 And the men said to her, We will be guiltless of this your oath which you have made us to swear.
\v 18 Behold, when we come into the land, you shall bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which you did let us
down by: and you shall gather to you into the house your father, and your mother, and your brethren, and all your father’s
household.
\v 19 And it shall be, that whoever shall go out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head,
and we shall be guiltless: and whoever shall be with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head, if any hand be upon
him.
\v 20 But if you utter this our business, then we shall be guiltless of your oath which you have made us to swear.
\v 21 And she said, According to your words, so be it. And she sent them away, and they departed: and she bound the scarlet
line in the window.
\p
\v 22 And they went, and came to the mountain, and abode there three days, until the pursuers were returned: and the pursuers
sought them throughout all the way, but found them not.
\v 23 Then the two men returned, and descended from the mountain, and passed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun; and they
told him all that had befallen them.
\v 24 And they said to Joshua, Truly Jehovah has delivered into our hands all the land; and moreover all the inhabitants of
the land do melt away before us.