\c 3
\p
\v 1 And Joshua rose up early in the morning; and they removed from Shittim, and came to the Jordan, he and all the children of
Israel; and they lodged there before they passed over.
\v 2 And it came to pass after three days, that the officers went through the midst of the camp;
\v 3 and they commanded the people, saying, When you see the ark of the covenant of Jehovah your God, and the priests the
Levites bearing it, then you shall remove from your place, and go after it.
\v 4 Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure: come not near to it, that you may
know the way by which you must go; for you have not passed this way heretofore.
\v 5 And Joshua said to the people, Sanctify yourselves; for tomorrow Jehovah will do wonders among you.
\v 6 And Joshua spoke to the priests, saying, Take up the ark of the covenant, and pass over before the people. And they took
up the ark of the covenant, and went before the people.
\p
\v 7 And Jehovah said to Joshua, This day will I begin to magnify you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that,
as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee.
\v 8 And you shall command the priests that bear the ark of the covenant, saying, When you are come to the brink of the waters
of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan.
\v 9 And Joshua said to the children of Israel, Come hither, and hear the words of Jehovah your God.
\v 10 And Joshua said, Hereby you shall know that the living God is among you, and that he will without fail drive out from
before you the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Hivite, and the Perizzite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the
Jebusite.
\v 11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passes over before you into the Jordan.
\v 12 Now therefore take you twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, for every tribe a man.
\v 13 And it shall come to pass, when the soles of the feet of the priests that bear the ark of Jehovah, the Lord of all the
earth, shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, that the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off, even the waters that come down
from above; and they shall stand in one heap.
\p
\v 14 And it came to pass, when the people removed from their tents, to pass over the Jordan, the priests that bare the ark of
the covenant being before the people;
\v 15 and when they that bare the ark were come to the Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bare the ark were dipped in
the brink of the water (for the Jordan overfloweth all its banks all the time of harvest),
\v 16 that the waters which came down from above stood, and rose up in one heap, a great way off, at Adam, the city that is
beside Zarethan; and those that went down toward the sea of the Arabah, even the Salt Sea, were wholly cut off: and the people
passed over right against Jericho.
\v 17 And the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of Jehovah stood firm on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan; and all
Israel passed over on dry ground, until all the nation were passed clean over the Jordan.