\c 5
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when all the kings of the Amorites, that were beyond the Jordan westward, and all the kings of the
Canaanites, that were by the sea, heard how that Jehovah had dried up the waters of the Jordan from before the children of
Israel, until we were passed over, that their heart melted, neither was there spirit in them any more, because of the children
of Israel.
\p
\v 2 At that time Jehovah said to Joshua, Make you knives of flint, and circumcise again the children of Israel the second
time.
\v 3 And Joshua made him knives of flint, and circumcised the children of Israel at the hill of the foreskins.
\v 4 And this is the cause why Joshua did circumcise: all the people that came forth out of Egypt, that were males, even all
the men of war, died in the wilderness by the way, after they came forth out of Egypt.
\v 5 For all the people that came out were circumcised; but all the people that were born in the wilderness by the way as they
came forth out of Egypt, they had not circumcised.
\v 6 For the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness, till all the nation, even the men of war that came forth
out of Egypt, were consumed, because they listened not to the voice of Jehovah: to whom Jehovah sware that he would not
let them see the land which Jehovah sware to their fathers that he would give us, a land flowing with milk and honey.
\v 7 And their children, whom he raised up in their stead, them did Joshua circumcise: for they were uncircumcised, because
they had not circumcised them by the way.
\v 8 And it came to pass, when they had done circumcising all the nation, that they abode in their places in the camp, till
they were whole.
\v 9 And Jehovah said to Joshua, This day have I rolled away the reproach of Egypt from off you. Wherefore the name of that
place was called Gilgal, to this day.
\p
\v 10 And the children of Israel encamped in Gilgal; and they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the month at even in
the plains of Jericho.
\v 11 And they did eat of the produce of the land on the morrow after the passover, unleavened cakes and parched grain, in the
selfsame day.
\v 12 And the manna ceased on the morrow, after they had eaten of the produce of the land; neither had the children of Israel
manna any more; but they did eat of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.
\p
\v 13 And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood a man
over against him with his sword drawn in his hand: and Joshua went to him, and said to him, Are you for us, or for our
adversaries?
\v 14 And he said, Nay; but as prince of the host of Jehovah am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth,
and did worship, and said to him, What says my lord to his servant?
\v 15 And the prince of Jehovah’s host said to Joshua, Put off your shoe from off your foot; for the place whereon you
stand is holy. And Joshua did so.