\c 7
\p
\v 1 But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the devoted thing; for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the
son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took of the devoted thing: and the anger of Jehovah was kindled against the children of
Israel.
\p
\v 2 And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Beth-aven, on the east side of Beth-el, and spoke to them,
saying, Go up and spy out the land. And the men went up and spied out Ai.
\v 3 And they returned to Joshua, and said to him, Let not all the people go up; but let about two or three thousand men go
up and strike Ai; make not all the people to toil thither; for they are but few.
\v 4 So there went up there of the people about three thousand men: and they fled before the men of Ai.
\v 5 And the men of Ai struck of them about thirty and six men; and they chased them
from before the gate even to Shebarim, and struck them at the descent: and the hearts of the people melted, and
became as water.
\p
\v 6 And Joshua tore his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah until the evening, he and the
elders of Israel; and they put dust upon their heads.
\v 7 And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah, wherefore have you at all brought this people over the Jordan, to deliver us into
the hand of the Amorites, to cause us to perish? would that we had been content and lived beyond the Jordan!
\v 8 Oh, Lord, what shall I say, after that Israel has turned their backs before their enemies!
\v 9 For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it, and will compass us round, and cut off our name
from the earth: and what will you do for your great name?
\p
\v 10 And Jehovah said to Joshua, Get you up; wherefore are you thus fallen upon your face?
\v 11 Israel has sinned; yea, they have even transgressed my covenant which I commanded them: yea, they have even taken of the
devoted thing, and have also stolen, and dissembled also; and they have even put it among their own stuff.
\v 12 Therefore the children of Israel cannot stand before their enemies; they turn their backs before their enemies, because
they are become accursed: I will not be with you any more, except you destroy the devoted thing from among you.
\v 13 Up, sanctify the people, and say, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow: for thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, There
is a devoted thing in the midst of thee, O Israel; you can not stand before your enemies, until you take away the devoted
thing from among you.
\v 14 In the morning therefore you shall be brought near by your tribes: and it shall be, that the tribe which Jehovah takes
shall come near by families; and the family which Jehovah shall take shall come near by households; and the household which
Jehovah shall take shall come near man by man.
\v 15 And it shall be, that he that is taken with the devoted thing shall be burnt with fire, he and all that he hath; because
he has transgressed the covenant of Jehovah, and because he has wrought folly in Israel.
\p
\v 16 So Joshua rose up early in the morning, and brought Israel near by their tribes; and the tribe of Judah was taken:
\v 17 and he brought near the family of Judah; and he took the family of the Zerahites: and he brought near the family of the
Zerahites man by man; and Zabdi was taken:
\v 18 and he brought near his household man by man; and Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the
tribe of Judah, was taken.
\v 19 And Joshua said to Achan, My son, give, I pray thee, glory to Jehovah, the God of Israel, and make confession to him;
and tell me now what you have done; hide it not from me.
\v 20 And Achan answered Joshua, and said, Of a truth I have sinned against Jehovah, the God of Israel, and thus and thus have
I done:
\v 21 when I saw among the spoil a goodly Babylonish mantle, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold of fifty
shekels weight, then I coveted them, and took them; and, behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the
silver under it.
\p
\v 22 So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent; and, behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it.
\v 23 And they took them from the midst of the tent, and brought them to Joshua, and to all the children of Israel; and
they laid them down before Jehovah.
\v 24 And Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver, and the mantle, and the wedge of gold,
and his sons, and his daughters, and his oxen, and his asses, and his sheep, and his tent, and all that he had: and they
brought them up to the valley of Achor.
\v 25 And Joshua said, Why have you troubled us? Jehovah shall trouble you this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones;
and they burned them with fire, and stoned them with stones.
\v 26 And they raised over him a great heap of stones, to this day; and Jehovah turned from the fierceness of his anger.
Wherefore the name of that place was called, The valley of Achor, to this day.