\c 8
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Joshua, Fear not, neither be you dismayed: take all the people of war with thee, and arise, go up
to Ai; see, I have given into your hand the king of Ai, and his people, and his city, and his land;
\v 2 And you shall do to Ai and her king as you did to Jericho and her king: only the spoil thereof, and the cattle
thereof, shall you take for a prey to yourselves: set you an ambush for the city behind it.
\p
\v 3 So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to go up to Ai: and Joshua chose out thirty thousand men, the mighty men of
valor, and sent them forth by night.
\v 4 And he commanded them, saying, Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city, behind the city; go not very far from the
city, but be you all ready:
\v 5 and I, and all the people that are with me, will approach to the city. And it shall come to pass, when they come out
against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them;
\v 6 and they will come out after us, till we have drawn them away from the city; for they will say, They flee before us, as at
the first: so we will flee before them;
\v 7 and you shall rise up from the ambush, and take possession of the city: for Jehovah your God will deliver it into your
hand.
\v 8 And it shall be, when you have seized upon the city, that you shall set the city on fire; according to the word of Jehovah
shall you do: see, I have commanded you.
\v 9 And Joshua sent them forth; and they went to the ambushment, and abode between Beth-el and Ai, on the west side of Ai: but
Joshua lodged that night among the people.
\p
\v 10 And Joshua arose up early in the morning, and mustered the people, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the
people to Ai.
\v 11 And all the people, even the men of war that were with him, went up, and drew nigh, and came before
the city, and encamped on the north side of Ai: now there was a valley between him and Ai.
\v 12 And he took about five thousand men, and set them in ambush between Beth-el and Ai, on the west side of the city.
\v 13 So they set the people, even all the host that was on the north of the city, and their liers-in-wait that were on the
west of the city; and Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley.
\v 14 And it came to pass, when the king of Ai saw it, that they hasted and rose up early, and the men of the city went out
against Israel to battle, he and all his people, at the time appointed, before the Arabah; but he knew not that there was an
ambush against him behind the city.
\v 15 And Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness.
\v 16 And all the people that were in the city were called together to pursue after them: and they pursued after Joshua, and
were drawn away from the city.
\v 17 And there was not a man left in Ai or Beth-el, that went not out after Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued
after Israel.
\p
\v 18 And Jehovah said to Joshua, Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai; for I will give it into your hand.
And Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city.
\v 19 And the ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand, and entered into
the city, and took it; and they hasted and set the city on fire.
\v 20 And when the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and, behold, the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they
had no power to flee this way or that way: and the people that fled to the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers.
\v 21 And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they
turned again, and killed the men of Ai.
\v 22 And the others came forth out of the city against them; so they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some
on that side: and they struck them, so that they let none of them remain or escape.
\v 23 And the king of Ai they took alive, and brought him to Joshua.
\p
\v 24 And it came to pass, when Israel had made an end of slaying all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness
wherein they pursued them, and they were all fallen by the edge of the sword, until they were consumed, that all Israel
returned to Ai, and struck it with the edge of the sword.
\v 25 And all that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai.
\v 26 For Joshua drew not back his hand, wherewith he stretched out the javelin, until he had utterly destroyed all the
inhabitants of Ai.
\v 27 Only the cattle and the spoil of that city Israel took for prey to themselves, according to the word of Jehovah which
he commanded Joshua.
\v 28 So Joshua burnt Ai, and made it a heap for ever, even a desolation, to this day.
\v 29 And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree until the eventide: and at the going down of the sun Joshua commanded, and they
took his body down from the tree, and cast it at the entrance of the gate of the city, and raised thereon a great heap of
stones, to this day.
\p
\v 30 Then Joshua built an altar to Jehovah, the God of Israel, in mount Ebal,
\v 31 as Moses the servant of Jehovah commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an
altar of unhewn stones, upon which no man had lifted up any iron: and they offered thereon burnt offerings to Jehovah, and
sacrificed peace-offerings.
\v 32 And he wrote there upon the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he wrote, in the presence of the children of Israel.
\v 33 And all Israel, and their elders and officers, and their judges, stood on this side of the ark and on that side before
the priests the Levites, that bare the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, as well the sojourner as the homeborn; half of them in
front of mount Gerizim, and half of them in front of mount Ebal; as Moses the servant of Jehovah had commanded at the first,
that they should bless the people of Israel.
\v 34 And afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book
of the law.
\v 35 There was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshua read not before all the assembly of Israel, and the women,
and the little ones, and the sojourners that were among them.