\c 9
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when all the kings that were beyond the Jordan, in the hill-country, and in the lowland, and on all
the shore of the great sea in front of Lebanon, the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the
Jebusite, heard thereof;
\v 2 that they gathered themselves together, to fight with Joshua and with Israel, with one accord.
\p
\v 3 But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai,
\v 4 they also did work wilily, and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and took old sacks upon their asses, and
wine-skins, old and tore and bound up,
\v 5 and old and patched shoes upon their feet, and old garments upon them; and all the bread of their provision was dry and
was become mouldy.
\v 6 And they went to Joshua to the camp at Gilgal, and said to him, and to the men of Israel, We are come from a far
country: now therefore make you a covenant with us.
\v 7 And the men of Israel said to the Hivites, Peradventure you dwell among us; and how shall we make a covenant with you?
\v 8 And they said to Joshua, We are your servants. And Joshua said to them, Who are ye? and from whence come ye?
\v 9 And they said to him, From a very far country your servants are come because of the name of Jehovah your God: for we have
heard the fame of him, and all that he did in Egypt,
\v 10 and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites, that were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to Og
king of Bashan, who was at Ashtaroth.
\v 11 And our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spoke to us, saying, Take provision in your hand for the journey,
and go to meet them, and say to them, We are your servants: and now make you a covenant with us.
\v 12 This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we came forth to go to you; but now, behold,
it is dry, and is become mouldy:
\v 13 and these wine-skins, which we filled, were new; and, behold, they are rent: and these our garments and our shoes are
become old by reason of the very long journey.
\v 14 And the men took of their provision, and asked not counsel at the mouth of Jehovah.
\v 15 And Joshua made peace with them, and made a covenant with them, to let them live: and the princes of the congregation
sware to them.
\p
\v 16 And it came to pass at the end of three days after they had made a covenant with them, that they heard that they were
their neighbors, and that they lived among them.
\v 17 And the children of Israel journeyed, and came to their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, and
Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kiriath-jearim.
\v 18 And the children of Israel struck them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn to them by Jehovah, the
God of Israel. And all the congregation murmured against the princes.
\v 19 But all the princes said to all the congregation, We have sworn to them by Jehovah, the God of Israel: now therefore
we may not touch them.
\v 20 This we will do to them, and let them live; lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath which we sware to them.
\v 21 And the princes said to them, Let them live: so they became hewers of wood and drawers of water to all the
congregation, as the princes had spoken to them.
\p
\v 22 And Joshua called for them, and he spoke to them, saying, Wherefore have you beguiled us, saying, We are very far from
you; when you dwell among us?
\v 23 Now therefore you are cursed, and there shall never fail to be of you bondmen, both hewers of wood and drawers of water
for the house of my God.
\v 24 And they answered Joshua, and said, Because it was certainly told your servants, how that Jehovah your God commanded his
servant Moses to give you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you; therefore we were sore
afraid for our lives because of you, and have done this thing.
\v 25 And now, behold, we are in your hand: as it seems good and right to you to do to us, do.
\v 26 And so did he to them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, that they killed them not.
\v 27 And Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation, and for the altar of Jehovah,
to this day, in the place which he should choose.