\c 13
\p
\v 1 Now Joshua was old and well stricken in years; and Jehovah said to him, You are old and well stricken in years, and
there remains yet very much land to be possessed.
\v 2 This is the land that yet remaineth: all the regions of the Philistines, and all the Geshurites;
\v 3 from the Shihor, which is before Egypt, even to the border of Ekron northward,
which is reckoned to the Canaanites; the five lords of the Philistines; the Gazites, and the Ashdodites, the
Ashkelonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; also the Avvim,
\v 4 on the south; all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that belongs to the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the border of the
Amorites;
\v 5 and the land of the Gebalites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunrising, from Baal-gad under mount Hermon to the entrance
of Hamath;
\v 6 all the inhabitants of the hill-country from Lebanon to Misrephoth-maim, even all the Sidonians; them will I drive out
from before the children of Israel: only allot you it to Israel for an inheritance, as I have commanded thee.
\v 7 Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.
\p
\v 8 With him the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritance, which Moses gave them, beyond the Jordan eastward,
even as Moses the servant of Jehovah gave them:
\v 9 from Aroer, that is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the valley, and all the
plain of Medeba to Dibon;
\v 10 and all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, to the border of the children of Ammon;
\v 11 and Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and Maacathites, and all mount Hermon, and all Bashan to Salecah;
\v 12 all the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei (the same was left of the remnant of the Rephaim);
for these did Moses smite, and drove them out.
\v 13 Nevertheless the children of Israel drove not out the Geshurites, nor the Maacathites: but Geshur and Maacath dwell in
the midst of Israel to this day.
\v 14 Only to the tribe of Levi he gave no inheritance; the offerings of Jehovah, the God of Israel, made by fire are his
inheritance, as he spoke to him.
\p
\v 15 And Moses gave to the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their families.
\v 16 And their border was from Aroer, that is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of
the valley, and all the plain by Medeba;
\v 17 Heshbon, and all its cities that are in the plain; Dibon, and Bamoth-baal, and Beth-baal-meon,
\v 18 and Jahaz, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,
\v 19 and Kiriathaim, and Sibmah, and Zereth-shahar in the mount of the valley,
\v 20 and Beth-peor, and the slopes of Pisgah, and Beth-jeshimoth,
\v 21 and all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses
struck with the chiefs of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the princes of Sihon, that lived in the land.
\v 22 Balaam also the son of Beor, the soothsayer, did the children of Israel kill with the sword among the rest of their
slain.
\v 23 And the border of the children of Reuben was the Jordan, and the border
thereof. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben according to their families, the cities and the villages
thereof.
\p
\v 24 And Moses gave to the tribe of Gad, to the children of Gad, according to their families.
\v 25 And their border was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon, to Aroer that is
before Rabbah;
\v 26 and from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir;
\v 27 and in the valley, Beth-haram, and Beth-nimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of
Heshbon, the Jordan and the border thereof, to the uttermost part of the sea of Chinnereth beyond the Jordan
eastward.
\v 28 This is the inheritance of the children of Gad according to their families, the cities and the villages thereof.
\p
\v 29 And Moses gave inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh: and it was for the half-tribe of the children of
Manasseh according to their families.
\v 30 And their border was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which
are in Bashan, threescore cities:
\v 31 and half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, the cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were for the children of Machir the
son of Manasseh, even for the half of the children of Machir according to their families.
\p
\v 32 These are the inheritances which Moses distributed in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan at Jericho, eastward.
\v 33 But to the tribe of Levi Moses gave no inheritance: Jehovah, the God of Israel, is their inheritance, as he spoke to
them.