\c 23
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass after many days, when Jehovah had given rest to Israel from all their enemies round about, and
Joshua was old and well stricken in years;
\v 2 that Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders and for their heads, and for their judges and for their officers, and
said to them, I am old and well stricken in years:
\v 3 and you have seen all that Jehovah your God has done to all these nations because of you; for Jehovah your God, he it is
that has fought for you.
\v 4 Behold, I have allotted to you these nations that remain, to be an inheritance for your tribes, from the Jordan, with
all the nations that I have cut off, even to the great sea toward the going down of the sun.
\v 5 And Jehovah your God, he will thrust them out from before you, and drive them from out of your sight; and you shall possess
their land, as Jehovah your God spoke to you.
\v 6 Therefore be you very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that you turn not
aside therefrom to the right hand or to the left;
\v 7 that you come not among these nations, these that remain among you; neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor
cause to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow down yourselves to them;
\v 8 but cleave to Jehovah your God, as you have done to this day.
\v 9 For Jehovah has driven out from before you great nations and strong: but as for you, no man has stood before you to
this day.
\v 10 One man of you shall chase a thousand; for Jehovah your God, he it is that fights for you, as he spoke to you.
\v 11 Take good heed therefore to yourselves, that you love Jehovah your God.
\v 12 Else if you do at all go back, and cleave to the remnant of these nations, even these that remain among you, and make
marriages with them, and go in to them, and they to you;
\v 13 know for a certainty that Jehovah your God will no more drive these nations from out of your sight; but they shall be a
snare and a trap to you, and a scourge in your sides, and thorns in your eyous, until you perish from off this good land which
Jehovah your God has given you.
\p
\v 14 And, behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth: and you know in all your hearts and in all your souls, that not
one thing has failed of all the good things which Jehovah your God spoke concerning you; all are come to pass to you, not
one thing has failed thereof.
\v 15 And it shall come to pass, that as all the good things are come upon you of which Jehovah your God spoke to you, so
will Jehovah bring upon you all the evil things, until he have destroyed you from off this good land which Jehovah your God
has given you.
\v 16 When you transgress the covenant of Jehovah your God, which he commanded you, and go and serve other gods, and bow down
yourselves to them; then will the anger of Jehovah be kindled against you, and you shall perish quickly from off the good land
which he has given to you.