\c 24
\p
\v 1 And Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, and called for the elders of Israel, and for their heads, and for
their judges, and for their officers; and they presented themselves before God.
\v 2 And Joshua said to all the people, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, Your fathers lived of old time beyond the
River, even Terah, the father of Abraham, and the father of Nahor: and they served other gods.
\v 3 And I took your father Abraham from beyond the River, and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his
seed, and gave him Isaac.
\v 4 And I gave to Isaac Jacob and Esau: and I gave to Esau mount Seir, to possess it; and Jacob and his children went down
into Egypt.
\v 5 And I sent Moses and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, according to that which I did in the midst thereof: and afterward I
brought you out.
\v 6 And I brought your fathers out of Egypt: and you came to the sea; and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with
chariots and with horsemen to the Red Sea.
\v 7 And when they cried out to Jehovah, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians, and brought the sea upon them, and
covered them; and your eyous saw what I did in Egypt: and you lived in the wilderness many days.
\v 8 And I brought you into the land of the Amorites, that lived beyond the Jordan: and they fought with you; and I gave them
into your hand, and you possessed their land; and I destroyoud them from before you.
\v 9 Then Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and fought against Israel: and he sent and called Balaam the son of Beor
to curse you;
\v 10 but I would not listen to Balaam; therefore he blessed you still: so I delivered you out of his hand.
\v 11 And you went over the Jordan, and came to Jericho: and the men of Jericho fought against you, the Amorite, and the
Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Girgashite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite; and I delivered them into your
hand.
\v 12 And I sent the hornet before you, which drove them out from before you, even the two kings of the Amorites; not with your
sword, nor with your bow.
\v 13 And I gave you a land whereon you had not labored, and cities which you built not, and you dwell therein; of vineyards
and olive yards which you planted not do you eat.
\p
\v 14 Now therefore fear Jehovah, and serve him in sincerity and in truth; and put away the gods which your fathers served
beyond the River, and in Egypt; and serve you Jehovah.
\v 15 And if it seem evil to you to serve Jehovah, choose you this day whom you will serve; whether the gods which your
fathers served that were beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell: but as for me and my house, we
will serve Jehovah.
\p
\v 16 And the people answered and said, Far be it from us that we should forsake Jehovah, to serve other gods;
\v 17 for Jehovah our God, he it is that brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and
that did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way wherein we went, and among all the peoples through the
midst of whom we passed;
\v 18 and Jehovah drove out from before us all the peoples, even the Amorites that lived in the land: therefore we also will
serve Jehovah; for he is our God.
\p
\v 19 And Joshua said to the people, You cannot serve Jehovah; for he is a holy God; he is a jealous God; he will not forgive
your transgression nor your sins.
\v 20 If you forsake Jehovah, and serve foreign gods, then he will turn and do you evil, and consume you, after that he has
done you good.
\v 21 And the people said to Joshua, Nay; but we will serve Jehovah.
\v 22 And Joshua said to the people, You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen you Jehovah, to serve him. And
they said, We are witnesses.
\v 23 Now therefore put away, said he, the foreign gods which are among you, and incline your heart to Jehovah, the
God of Israel.
\v 24 And the people said to Joshua, Jehovah our God will we serve, and to his voice will we hearken.
\v 25 So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day, and set them a statute and an ordinance in Shechem.
\v 26 And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God; and he took a great stone, and set it up there under the oak
that was by the sanctuary of Jehovah.
\v 27 And Joshua said to all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness against us; for it has heard all the words of
Jehovah which he spoke to us: it shall be therefore a witness against you, lest you deny your God.
\v 28 So Joshua sent the people away, every man to his inheritance.
\p
\v 29 And it came to pass after these things, that Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten
years old.
\v 30 And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathserah, which is in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the
north of the mountain of Gaash.
\v 31 And Israel served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, and had known all
the work of Jehovah, that he had wrought for Israel.
\p
\v 32 And the bones of Joseph, which the children of Israel brought up out of Egypt, buried they in Shechem, in the parcel of
ground which Jacob bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for a hundred pieces of money: and they became the
inheritance of the children of Joseph.
\v 33 And Eleazar the son of Aaron died; and they buried him in the hill of Phinehas his son, which was given him in the
hill-country of Ephraim.