\c 1
\p
\v 1 These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in the Arabah over against
Suph, between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Di-zahab.
\v 2 It is eleven days’ journey from Horeb by the way of mount Seir to Kadesh-barnea.
\v 3 And it came to pass in the forties year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spoke to the
children of Israel, according to all that Jehovah had given him in commandment to them;
\v 4 after he had struck Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, who lived in
Ashtaroth, at Edrei.
\v 5 Beyond the Jordan, in the land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law, saying,
\v 6 Jehovah our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying, You have lived long enough in this mountain:
\v 7 turn you, and take your journey, and go to the hill-country of the Amorites, and to all
the places near thereunto, in the Arabah, in the hill-country, and in the lowland, and in the South, and by the
sea-shore, the land of the Canaanites, and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates.
\v 8 Behold, I have set the land before you: go in and possess the land which Jehovah sware to your fathers, to Abraham, to
Isaac, and to Jacob, to give to them and to their seed after them.
\p
\v 9 And I spoke to you at that time, saying, I am not able to bear you myself alone:
\v 10 Jehovah your God has multiplied you, and, behold, you are this day as the stars of heaven for multitude.
\v 11 Jehovah, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are, and bless you, as he has promised you!
\v 12 How can I myself alone bear your cumbrance, and your burden, and your strife?
\v 13 Take you wise men, and understanding, and known, according to your tribes, and I will make them heads over you.
\v 14 And you answered me, and said, The thing which you have spoken is good
for us to do.
\v 15 So I took the heads of your tribes, wise men, and known, and made them heads over you, captains of thousands, and
captains of hundreds, and captains of fifties, and captains of tens, and officers, according to your tribes.
\v 16 And I charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear the causes
between your brethren, and judge righteously between a man and his brother, and the sojourner that is with him.
\v 17 You shall not respect persons in judgment; you shall hear the small and the great alike; you shall not be afraid of the face
of man; for the judgment is God’s: and the cause that is too hard for you you shall bring to me, and I will hear it.
\v 18 And I commanded you at that time all the things which you should do.
\p
\v 19 And we journeyoud from Horeb, and went through all that great and terrible wilderness which you saw, by the way to the
hill-country of the Amorites, as Jehovah our God commanded us; and we came to Kadesh-barnea.
\v 20 And I said to you, You are come to the hill-country of the Amorites, which Jehovah our God gives to us.
\v 21 Behold, Jehovah your God has set the land before thee: go up, take possession, as Jehovah, the God of your fathers, has
spoken to thee; fear not, neither be dismayed.
\v 22 And you came near to me every one of you, and said, Let us send men before us, that they may search the land for us, and
bring us word again of the way by which we must go up, and the cities to which we shall come.
\v 23 And the thing pleased me well; and I took twelve men of you, one man for every tribe:
\v 24 and they turned and went up into the hill-country, and came to the valley of Eshcol, and spied it out.
\v 25 And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it down to us, and brought us word again, and said,
It is a good land which Jehovah our God gives to us.
\p
\v 26 Yet you would not go up, but rebelled against the commandment of Jehovah your God:
\v 27 and you murmured in your tents, and said, Because Jehovah hated us, he has brought us forth out of the land of Egypt, to
deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.
\v 28 Whither are we going up? our brethren have made our heart to melt, saying, The people are greater and taller than we; the
cities are great and fortified up to heaven; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakim there.
\v 29 Then I said to you, Dread not, neither be afraid of them.
\v 30 Jehovah your God who goes before you, he will fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your
eyes,
\v 31 and in the wilderness, where you have seen how that Jehovah your God bare thee, as a man does bear his son, in all the
way that you went, until you came to this place.
\v 32 Yet in this thing you did not believe Jehovah your God,
\v 33 who went before you in the way, to seek you out a place to pitch your tents in, in fire by night, to show you by what way
you should go, and in the cloud by day.
\p
\v 34 And Jehovah heard the voice of your words, and was wroth, and sware, saying,
\v 35 Surely there shall not one of these men of this evil generation see the good land, which I sware to give to your
fathers,
\v 36 save Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it; and to him will I give the land that he has trodden upon, and to his
children, because he has wholly followed Jehovah.
\v 37 Also Jehovah was angry with me for your sakes, saying, You also shall not go in thither:
\v 38 Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before thee, he shall go in thither: encourage you him; for he shall cause Israel to
inherit it.
\v 39 Moreover your little ones, that you said should be a prey, and your children, that this day have no knowledge of good or
evil, they shall go in thither, and to them will I give it, and they shall possess it.
\v 40 But as for you, turn you, and take your journey into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.
\p
\v 41 Then you answered and said to me, We have sinned against Jehovah, we will go up and fight, according to all that Jehovah
our God commanded us. And you girded on every man his weapons of war, and were forward to go up into the hill-country.
\v 42 And Jehovah said to me, Say to them, Go not up, neither fight; for I am not among you; lest you be struck before your
enemies.
\v 43 So I spoke to you, and you listened not; but you rebelled against the commandment of Jehovah, and were presumptuous, and
went up into the hill-country.
\v 44 And the Amorites, that lived in that hill-country, came out against you, and chased you, as bees do, and beat you down in
Seir, even to Hormah.
\v 45 And you returned and wept before Jehovah; but Jehovah listened not to your voice, nor gave ear to you.
\v 46 So you abode in Kadesh many days, according to the days that you abode
there.