\c 2
\p
\v 1 Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea, as Jehovah spoke to me; and we
compassed mount Seir many days.
\v 2 And Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
\v 3 You have compassed this mountain long enough: turn you northward.
\v 4 And command you the people, saying, You are to pass through the border of your brethren the children of Esau, that dwell
in Seir; and they will be afraid of you. Take you good heed to yourselves therefore;
\v 5 contend not with them; for I will not give you of their land, no, not so much as for the sole of the foot to tread on;
because I have given mount Seir to Esau for a possession.
\v 6 You shall purchase food of them for money, that you may eat; and you shall also buy water of them for money, that you may
drink.
\v 7 For Jehovah your God has blessed you in all the work of your hand; he has known your walking through this great
wilderness: these forty years Jehovah your God has been with thee; you have lacked nothing.
\v 8 So we passed by from our brethren the children of Esau, that dwell in Seir, from the way of the Arabah from Elath and from
Ezion-geber.
\p And we turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab.
\v 9 And Jehovah said to me, Vex not Moab, neither contend with them in battle; for I will not give you of his land for a
possession; because I have given Ar to the children of Lot for a possession.
\v 10 (The Emim lived therein aforetime, a people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakim:
\v 11 these also are accounted Rephaim, as the Anakim; but the Moabites call them Emim.
\v 12 The Horites also lived in Seir aforetime, but the children of Esau succeeded them; and they destroyed them from before
them, and lived in their stead; as Israel did to the land of his possession, which Jehovah gave to them.)
\v 13 Now rise up, and get you over the brook Zered. And we went over the brook Zered.
\v 14 And the days in which we came from Kadesh-barnea, until we were come over the brook Zered, were thirty and eight years;
until all the generation of the men of war were consumed from the midst of the camp, as Jehovah sware to them.
\v 15 Moreover the hand of Jehovah was against them, to destroy them from the midst of the camp, until they were consumed.
\p
\v 16 So it came to pass, when all the men of war were consumed and dead from among the people,
\v 17 that Jehovah spoke to me, saying,
\v 18 You are this day to pass over Ar, the border of Moab:
\v 19 and when you come near over against the children of Ammon, vex them not, nor contend with them; for I will not give
you of the land of the children of Ammon for a possession; because I have given it to the children of Lot for a possession.
\v 20 (That also is accounted a land of Rephaim: Rephaim lived therein aforetime; but the Ammonites call them Zamzummim,
\v 21 a people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakim; but Jehovah destroyed them before them; and they succeeded them, and
lived in their stead;
\v 22 as he did for the children of Esau, that dwell in Seir, when he destroyed the Horites from before them; and they
succeeded them, and lived in their stead even to this day.
\v 23 And the Avvim, that lived in villages as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim, that came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and
lived in their stead.)
\v 24 Rise you up, take your journey, and pass over the valley of the Arnon: behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the
Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land; begin to possess it, and contend with him in battle.
\v 25 This day will I begin to put the dread of you and the fear of you upon the peoples that are under the whole heaven, who
shall hear the report of thee, and shall tremble, and be in anguish because of thee.
\p
\v 26 And I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,
\v 27 Let me pass through your land: I will go along by the highway, I will turn neither to the right hand nor to the left.
\v 28 You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat; and give me water for money, that I may drink: only let me pass
through on my feet;
\v 29 as the children of Esau that dwell in Seir, and the Moabites that dwell in Ar, did to me; until I shall pass over the
Jordan into the land which Jehovah our God gives us.
\v 30 But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him; for Jehovah your God hardened his spirit, and made his heart
obstinate, that he might deliver him into your hand, as at this day.
\v 31 And Jehovah said to me, Behold, I have begun to deliver up Sihon and his land before thee: begin to possess, that you
may inherit his land.
\v 32 Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz.
\v 33 And Jehovah our God delivered him up before us; and we struck him, and his sons, and all his people.
\v 34 And we took all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed every inhabited city, with the women and the little ones;
we left none remaining:
\v 35 only the cattle we took for a prey to ourselves, with the spoil of the cities which we had taken.
\v 36 From Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, and
from the city that is in the valley, even to Gilead, there was not a city too high for us; Jehovah our God
delivered up all before us:
\v 37 only to the land of the children of Ammon you came not near; all the side of the river Jabbok, and the cities of the
hill-country, and wherever Jehovah our God forbade us.