\c 3
\p
\v 1 Then we turned, and went up the way to Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to
battle at Edrei.
\v 2 And Jehovah said to me, Fear him not; for I have delivered him, and all his people, and his land, into your hand; and
you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.
\v 3 So Jehovah our God delivered into our hand Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people: and we struck him until none
was left to him remaining.
\v 4 And we took all his cities at that time; there was not a city which we took not from them; threescore cities, all the
region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
\v 5 All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars; besides the unwalled towns a great many.
\v 6 And we utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying every inhabited city, with the
women and the little ones.
\v 7 But all the cattle, and the spoil of the cities, we took for a prey to ourselves.
\v 8 And we took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites that were beyond the Jordan, from the
valley of the Arnon to mount Hermon
\v 9 (which Hermon the Sidonians call Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir);
\v 10 all the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, to Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in
Bashan.
\v 11 (For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of the Rephaim; behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; is it
not in Rabbah of the children of Ammon? nine cubits was the length thereof, and four cubits the breadth of it, after the cubit
of a man.)
\p
\v 12 And this land we took in possession at that time: from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, and half the
hill-country of Gilead, and the cities thereof, gave I to the Reubenites and to the Gadites:
\v 13 and the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, gave I to the half-tribe of Manasseh; all the region of
Argob, even all Bashan. (The same is called the land of Rephaim.
\v 14 Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob, to the border of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and called
them, even Bashan, after his own name, Havvoth-jair, to this day.)
\v 15 And I gave Gilead to Machir.
\v 16 And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave from Gilead even to the valley of the Arnon, the middle of the
valley, and the border thereof, even to the river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon;
\v 17 the Arabah also, and the Jordan and the border thereof, from Chinnereth even to the sea of the Arabah, the
Salt Sea, under the slopes of Pisgah eastward.
\p
\v 18 And I commanded you at that time, saying, Jehovah your God has given you this land to possess it: you shall pass over
armed before your brethren the children of Israel, all the men of valor.
\v 19 But your wives, and your little ones, and your cattle (I know that you have much cattle), shall abide in your cities which
I have given you,
\v 20 until Jehovah give rest to your brethren, as to you, and they also possess the land which Jehovah your God gives
them beyond the Jordan: then shall you return every man to his possession, which I have given you.
\v 21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Your eyes have seen all that Jehovah your God has done to these two
kings: so shall Jehovah do to all the kingdoms whither you go over.
\v 22 You shall not fear them; for Jehovah your God, he it is that fights for you.
\p
\v 23 And I implored Jehovah at that time, saying,
\v 24 O Lord Jehovah, you have begun to show your servant your greatness, and your strong hand: for what god is there in heaven
or in earth, that can do according to your works, and according to your mighty acts?
\v 25 Let me go over, I pray thee, and see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, that goodly mountain, and Lebanon.
\v 26 But Jehovah was angry with me for your sakes, and listened not to me; and Jehovah said to me, Let it suffice thee;
speak no more to me of this matter.
\v 27 Get you up to the top of Pisgah, and lift up your eyes westward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and
behold with your eyes: for you shall not go over this Jordan.
\v 28 But charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him; for he shall go over before this people, and he shall cause
them to inherit the land which you shall see.
\v 29 So we abode in the valley over against Beth-peor.