\c 4
\p
\v 1 And now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and to the ordinances, which I teach you, to do them; that you may live, and
go in and possess the land which Jehovah, the God of your fathers, gives you.
\v 2 You shall not add to the word which I command you, neither shall you diminish from it, that you may keep the commandments
of Jehovah your God which I command you.
\v 3 Your eyes have seen what Jehovah did because of Baal-peor; for all the men that followed Baal-peor, Jehovah your God has
destroyed them from the midst of thee.
\v 4 But you that did cleave to Jehovah your God are alive every one of you this day.
\v 5 Behold, I have taught you statutes and ordinances, even as Jehovah my God commanded me, that you should do so in the midst
of the land whither you go in to possess it.
\v 6 Keep therefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, that shall hear
all these statutes, and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.
\v 7 For what great nation is there, that has a god so near to them, as Jehovah our God is whenever we call upon him?
\v 8 And what great nation is there, that has statutes and ordinances so righteous as all this law, which I set before you
this day?
\p
\v 9 Only take heed to yourself, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things which your eyes saw, and lest they
depart from your heart all the days of your life; but make them known to your children and your children’s children;
\v 10 the day that you stood before Jehovah your God in Horeb, when Jehovah said to me, Assemble me the people, and I will
make them hear my words, that they may learn to fear me all the days that they live upon the earth, and that they may teach
their children.
\v 11 And you came near and stood under the mountain; and the mountain burned with fire to the heart of heaven, with darkness,
cloud, and thick darkness.
\v 12 And Jehovah spoke to you out of the midst of the fire: you heard the voice of words, but you saw no form; only
you heard a voice.
\v 13 And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even the ten commandments; and he wrote them
upon two tables of stone.
\v 14 And Jehovah commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and ordinances, that you might do them in the land whither you
go over to possess it.
\p
\v 15 Take you therefore good heed to yourselves; for you saw no manner of form on the day that Jehovah spoke to you in Horeb
out of the midst of the fire;
\v 16 lest you corrupt yourselves, and make you a graven image in the form of any figure, the likeness of male or female,
\v 17 the likeness of any beast that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flieth in the heavens,
\v 18 the likeness of anything that creepeth on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth;
\v 19 and lest you lift up your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun and the moon and the stars, even all the host
of heaven, you be drawn away and worship them, and serve them, which Jehovah your God has allotted to all the peoples under
the whole heaven.
\v 20 But Jehovah has taken you, and brought you forth out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be to him a people of
inheritance, as at this day.
\v 21 Furthermore Jehovah was angry with me for your sakes, and sware that I should not go over the Jordan, and that I should
not go in to that good land, which Jehovah your God gives you for an inheritance:
\v 22 but I must die in this land, I must not go over the Jordan; but you shall go over, and possess that good land.
\v 23 Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of Jehovah your God, which he made with you, and make you a graven
image in the form of anything which Jehovah your God has forbidden thee.
\v 24 For Jehovah your God is a devouring fire, a jealous God.
\p
\v 25 When you shall beget children, and children’s children, and you shall have been long in the land, and shall corrupt
yourselves, and make a graven image in the form of anything, and shall do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah your God,
to provoke him to anger;
\v 26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from off the land whereunto you
go over the Jordan to possess it; you shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall utterly be destroyoud.
\v 27 And Jehovah will scatter you among the peoples, and you shall be left few in number among the nations, whither Jehovah
shall lead you away.
\v 28 And there you shall serve gods, the work of men’s hands, wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
\v 29 But from thence you shall seek Jehovah your God, and you shall find him, when you search after him with all your heart
and with all your soul.
\v 30 When you are in tribulation, and all these things are come upon thee, in the latter days you shall return to Jehovah
your God, and listen to his voice:
\v 31 for Jehovah your God is a merciful God; he will not fail thee, neither destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of your
fathers which he sware to them.
\p
\v 32 For ask now of the days that are past, which were before thee, since the day that God created man upon the earth, and
from the one end of heaven to the other, whether there has been
any such thing as this great thing is, or has been heard like it?
\v 33 Did ever a people hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and live?
\v 34 Or has God assayed to go and take him a nation from the midst of
another nation, by trials, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mighty hand, and by an outstretched arm,
and by great terrors, according to all that Jehovah your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
\v 35 To you it was showed, that you might know that Jehovah he is God; there is none else besides him.
\v 36 Out of heaven he made you to hear his voice, that he might instruct you: and upon earth he made you to see his great
fire; and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire.
\v 37 And because he loved your fathers, therefore he chose their seed after them, and brought you out with his presence, with
his great power, out of Egypt;
\v 38 to drive out nations from before you greater and mightier than thou, to bring you in, to give you their land for an
inheritance, as at this day.
\v 39 Know therefore this day, and lay it to your heart, that Jehovah he is God in heaven above and upon the earth beneath;
there is none else.
\v 40 And you shall keep his statutes, and his commandments, which I command you this day, that it may go well with you, and
with your children after thee, and that you may prolong your days in the land, which Jehovah your God gives thee, for ever.
\p
\v 41 Then Moses set apart three cities beyond the Jordan toward the sunrising;
\v 42 that the manslayer might flee thither, that kills his neighbor unawares, and hated him not in time past; and that
fleeing to one of these cities he might live:
\v 43 namely, Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country, for the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, for the
Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, for the Manassites.
\p
\v 44 And this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel:
\v 45 these are the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which Moses spoke to the children of Israel, when they
came forth out of Egypt,
\v 46 beyond the Jordan, in the valley over against Beth-peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon,
whom Moses and the children of Israel smote, when they came forth out of Egypt.
\v 47 And they took his land in possession, and the land of Og king of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond
the Jordan toward the sunrising;
\v 48 from Aroer, which is on the edge of the valley of the Arnon, even to mount Sion (the same is Hermon),
\v 49 and all the Arabah beyond the Jordan eastward, even to the sea of the Arabah, under the slopes of Pisgah.