\c 6
\p
\v 1 Now this is the commandment, the statutes, and the ordinances, which Jehovah your God commanded to teach you, that you
might do them in the land whither you go over to possess it;
\v 2 that you might fear Jehovah your God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, you, and
your son, and your son’s son, all the days of your life; and that your days may be prolonged.
\v 3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with thee, and that you may increase mightily, as
Jehovah, the God of your fathers, has promised to thee, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
\p
\v 4 Hear, O Israel: Jehovah our God is one Jehovah:
\v 5 and you shall love Jehovah your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might.
\v 6 And these words, which I command you this day, shall be upon your heart;
\v 7 and you shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when
you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
\v 8 And you shall bind them for a sign upon your hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes.
\v 9 And you shall write them upon the door-posts of your house, and upon your gates.
\p
\v 10 And it shall be, when Jehovah your God shall bring you into the land which he sware to your fathers, to Abraham, to
Isaac, and to Jacob, to give thee, great and goodly cities, which you buildest not,
\v 11 and houses full of all good things, which you filled not, and cisterns hewn out, which you hewedst not, vineyards and
olive-trees, which you plantedst not, and you shall eat and be full;
\v 12 then beware lest you forget Jehovah, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
\v 13 You shall fear Jehovah your God; and him shall you serve, and shall swear by his name.
\v 14 You shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the peoples that are round about you;
\v 15 for Jehovah your God in the midst of you is a jealous God; lest the anger of Jehovah your God be kindled against you, and
he destroy you from off the face of the earth.
\p
\v 16 You shall not tempt Jehovah your God, as you tempted him in Massah.
\v 17 You shall diligently keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has
commanded thee.
\v 18 And you shall do that which is right and good in the sight of Jehovah; that it may be well with thee, and that you
may go in and possess the good land which Jehovah sware to your fathers,
\v 19 to thrust out all your enemies from before thee, as Jehovah has spoken.
\p
\v 20 When your son asks you in time to come, saying, What mean the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which
Jehovah our God has commanded you?
\v 21 then you shall say to your son, We were Pharaoh’s bondmen in Egypt: and Jehovah brought us out of Egypt with a mighty
hand;
\v 22 and Jehovah showed signs and wonders, great and sore, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his house, before our eyes;
\v 23 and he brought us out from thence, that he might bring us in, to give us the land which he sware to our fathers.
\v 24 And Jehovah commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear Jehovah our God, for our good always, that he might preserve
us alive, as at this day.
\v 25 And it shall be righteousness to us, if we observe to do all this commandment before Jehovah our God, as he has
commanded us.