\c 7
\p
\v 1 When Jehovah your God shall bring you into the land whither you go to possess it, and shall cast out many nations
before thee, the Hittite, and the Girgashite, and the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the
Jebusite, seven nations greater and mightier than thou;
\v 2 and when Jehovah your God shall deliver them up before thee, and you shall strike them; then you shall utterly destroy
them: you shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them;
\v 3 neither shall you make marriages with them; your daughter you shall not give to his son, nor his daughter shall you
take to your son.
\v 4 For he will turn away your son from following me, that they may serve other gods: so will the anger of Jehovah be kindled
against you, and he will destroy you quickly.
\v 5 But thus shall you deal with them: you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and hew down their
Asherim, and burn their graven images with fire.
\p
\v 6 For you are a holy people to Jehovah your God: Jehovah your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession,
above all peoples that are upon the face of the earth.
\v 7 Jehovah did not set his love upon you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any people; for you were the
fewest of all peoples:
\v 8 but because Jehovah loves you, and because he would keep the oath which he sware to your fathers, has Jehovah brought
you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.
\v 9 Know therefore that Jehovah your God, he is God, the faithful God, who keeps covenant and lovingkindness with them that
love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations,
\v 10 and repays them that hate him to their face, to destroy them: he will not be slack to him that hates him, he will
repay him to his face.
\v 11 You shall therefore keep the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which I command you this day, to do
them.
\p
\v 12 And it shall come to pass, because you listen to these ordinances, and keep and do them, that Jehovah your God will keep
with you the covenant and the lovingkindness which he sware to your fathers:
\v 13 and he will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply thee; he will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your
ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your cattle and the young of your flock, in the land which he
sware to your fathers to give thee.
\v 14 You shall be blessed above all peoples: there shall not be male or female barren among you, or among your cattle.
\v 15 And Jehovah will take away from you all sickness; and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you knowest, will he
put upon thee, but will lay them upon all them that hate thee.
\v 16 And you shall consume all the peoples that Jehovah your God shall deliver to thee; your eye shall not pity them:
neither shall you serve their gods; for that will be a snare to thee.
\p
\v 17 If you shall say in your heart, These nations are more than I; how can I dispossess them?
\v 18 you shall not be afraid of them: you shall well remember what Jehovah your God did to Pharaoh, and to all Egypt;
\v 19 the great trials which your eyes saw, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm,
whereby Jehovah your God brought you out: so shall Jehovah your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid.
\v 20 Moreover Jehovah your God will send the hornet among them, until they that are left, and hide themselves, perish from
before thee.
\v 21 You shall not be affrighted at them; for Jehovah your God is in the midst of thee, a great God and a terrible.
\v 22 And Jehovah your God will cast out those nations before you by little and little: you may not consume them at once,
lest the beasts of the field increase upon thee.
\v 23 But Jehovah your God will deliver them up before thee, and will discomfit them with a great discomfiture, until they be
destroyed.
\v 24 And he will deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall make their name to perish from under heaven: there shall no
man be able to stand before thee, until you have destroyed them.
\v 25 The graven images of their gods shall you burn with fire: you shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor
take it to thee, lest you be snared therein; for it is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
\v 26 And you shall not bring an abomination into your house, and become a devoted thing like to it: you shall utterly
detest it, and you shall utterly abhor it; for it is a devoted thing.