\c 8
\p
\v 1 All the commandment which I command you this day shall you observe to do, that you may live, and multiply, and go in and
possess the land which Jehovah sware to your fathers.
\v 2 And you shall remember all the way which Jehovah your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might
humble thee, to prove thee, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments, or not.
\v 3 And he humbled you, and suffered you to hunger, and fed you with manna, which you knew not, neither did your fathers
know; that he might make you know that man does not live by bread only, but by everything that proceedeth out of the mouth of
Jehovah does man live.
\v 4 Your raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did your foot swell, these forty years.
\v 5 And you shall consider in your heart, that, as a man chasteneth his son, so Jehovah your God chasteneth thee.
\v 6 And you shall keep the commandments of Jehovah your God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him.
\v 7 For Jehovah your God brings you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, flowing forth in
valleys and hills;
\v 8 a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig-trees and pomegranates; a land of olive-trees and honey;
\v 9 a land wherein you shall eat bread wiyout scarceness, you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron,
and out of whose hills you may dig copper.
\v 10 And you shall eat and be full, and you shall bless Jehovah your God for the good land which he has given thee.
\p
\v 11 Beware lest you forget Jehovah your God, in not keeping his commandments, and his ordinances, and his statutes, which I
command you this day:
\v 12 lest, when you have eaten and are full, and have built goodly houses, and lived therein;
\v 13 and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold is multiplied, and all that you have is
multiplied;
\v 14 then your heart be lifted up, and you forget Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the
house of bondage;
\v 15 who led you through the great and terrible wilderness, wherein
were fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where was no water; who brought you forth water out of the rock of
flint;
\v 16 who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers knew not; that he might humble you, and that he might prove
you, to do you good at your latter end:
\v 17 and lest you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth.
\v 18 But you shall remember Jehovah your God, for it is he that gives you power to get wealth; that he may establish his
covenant which he sware to your fathers, as at this day.
\v 19 And it shall be, if you shall forget Jehovah your God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I
testify against you this day that you shall surely perish.
\v 20 As the nations that Jehovah makes to perish before you, so shall you perish; because you would not listen to the voice
of Jehovah your God.