\c 9
\p
\v 1 Hear, O Israel: you are to pass over the Jordan this day, to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than
thyself, cities great and fortified up to heaven,
\v 2 a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you knowest, and of whom you have heard say, Who can stand before
the sons of Anak?
\v 3 Know therefore this day, that Jehovah your God is he who goes over before you as a devouring fire; he will destroy them,
and he will bring them down before thee: so shall you drive them out, and make them to perish quickly, as Jehovah has spoken
to thee.
\v 4 Speak not you in your heart, after that Jehovah your God has thrust them out from before thee, saying, For my
righteousness Jehovah has brought me in to possess this land; whereas for the wickedness of these nations Jehovah does drive
them out from before thee.
\v 5 Not for your righteousness, or for the uprightness of your heart, do you go in to possess their land; but for the
wickedness of these nations Jehovah your God does drive them out from before thee, and that he may establish the word which
Jehovah sware to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
\p
\v 6 Know therefore, that Jehovah your God gives you not this good land to possess it for your righteousness; for you are a
stiff-necked people.
\v 7 Remember, forget you not, how you provoked Jehovah your God to wrath in the wilderness: from the day that you went
forth out of the land of Egypt, until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against Jehovah.
\v 8 Also in Horeb you provoked Jehovah to wrath, and Jehovah was angry with you to destroy you.
\v 9 When I was gone up into the mount to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant which Jehovah made with
you, then I abode in the mount forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread nor drink water.
\v 10 And Jehovah delivered to me the two tables of stone written with the finger of God; and on them
was written according to all the words, which Jehovah spoke with you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the
day of the assembly.
\v 11 And it came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that Jehovah gave me the two tables of stone, even the
tables of the covenant.
\v 12 And Jehovah said to me, Arise, get you down quickly from hence; for your people that you have brought forth out of
Egypt have corrupted themselves; they are quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them; they have made them a
molten image.
\v 13 Furthermore Jehovah spoke to me, saying, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiff-necked people:
\v 14 let me alone, that I may destroy them, and blot out their name from under heaven; and I will make of you a nation
mightier and greater than they.
\v 15 So I turned and came down from the mount, and the mount was burning with fire: and the two tables of the covenant were in
my two hands.
\v 16 And I looked, and, behold, you had sinned against Jehovah your God; you had made you a molten calf: you had turned aside
quickly out of the way which Jehovah had commanded you.
\v 17 And I took hold of the two tables, and cast them out of my two hands, and brake them before your eyes.
\v 18 And I fell down before Jehovah, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I did neither eat bread nor drink water;
because of all your sin which you sinned, in doing that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him to anger.
\v 19 For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure, wherewith Jehovah was angry against you to destroy you. But Jehovah
listened to me that time also.
\v 20 And Jehovah was very angry with Aaron to destroy him: and I prayed for Aaron also at the same time.
\v 21 And I took your sin, the calf which you had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, grinding it very small, until it
was as fine as dust: and I cast the dust thereof into the brook that descended out of the mount.
\p
\v 22 And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth-hattaavah, you provoked Jehovah to wrath.
\v 23 And when Jehovah sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you; then you rebelled
against the commandment of Jehovah your God, and you believed him not, nor listened to his voice.
\v 24 You have been rebellious against Jehovah from the day that I knew you.
\p
\v 25 So I fell down before Jehovah the forty days and forty nights that I fell down, because Jehovah had said he would destroy
you.
\v 26 And I prayed to Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, destroy not your people and your inheritance, that you have
redeemed through your greatness, that you have brought forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
\v 27 Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; look not to the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness,
nor to their sin,
\v 28 lest the land whence you brought us out say, Because Jehovah was not able to bring them into the land which he
promised to them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.
\v 29 Yet they are your people and your inheritance, which you brought out by your great power and by your outstretched
arm.