\c 10
\p
\v 1 At that time Jehovah said to me, Hew you two tables of stone like to the first, and come up to me into the mount,
and make you an ark of wood.
\v 2 And I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which you brakest, and you shall put them in the
ark.
\v 3 So I made an ark of acacia wood, and hewed two tables of stone like to the first, and went up into the mount, having the
two tables in my hand.
\v 4 And he wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which Jehovah spoke to you in the
mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and Jehovah gave them to me.
\v 5 And I turned and came down from the mount, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are as Jehovah
commanded me.
\v 6 (And the children of Israel journeyed from Beeroth Bene-jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died, and there he was buried; and
Eleazar his son ministered in the priest’s office in his stead.
\v 7 From thence they journeyed to Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water.
\v 8 At that time Jehovah set apart the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah to
minister to him, and to bless in his name, to this day.
\v 9 Wherefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brethren; Jehovah is his inheritance, according as Jehovah your God
spoke to him.)
\v 10 And I stayed in the mount, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights: and Jehovah listened to me that time
also; Jehovah would not destroy thee.
\v 11 And Jehovah said to me, Arise, take your journey before the people; and they shall go in and possess the land, which I
sware to their fathers to give to them.
\p
\v 12 And now, Israel, what does Jehovah your God require of thee, but to fear Jehovah your God, to walk in all his ways, and to
love him, and to serve Jehovah your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
\v 13 to keep the commandments of Jehovah, and his statutes, which I command you this day for your good?
\v 14 Behold, to Jehovah your God belongs heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein.
\v 15 Only Jehovah had a delight in your fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all peoples,
as at this day.
\v 16 Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiffnecked.
\v 17 For Jehovah your God, he is God of gods, and Lord of lords, the great God, the mighty, and the terrible, who regards
not persons, nor takes reward.
\v 18 He does execute justice for the fatherless and widow, and loves the sojourner, in giving him food and raiment.
\v 19 Love you therefore the sojourner; for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
\v 20 You shall fear Jehovah your God; him shall you serve; and to him shall you cleave, and by his name shall you swear.
\v 21 He is your praise, and he is your God, that has done for you these great and terrible things, which your eyes have seen.
\v 22 Your fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and ten persons; and now Jehovah your God has made you as the stars of
heaven for multitude.