\c 11
\p
\v 1 Therefore you shall love Jehovah your God, and keep his charge, and his statutes, and his ordinances, and his
commandments, alway.
\v 2 And know you this day: for I speak not with your children that have not known, and that have not seen the
chastisement of Jehovah your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his outstretched arm,
\v 3 and his signs, and his works, which he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and to all his land;
\v 4 and what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses, and to their chariots; how he made the water of the Red Sea to
overflow them as they pursued after you, and how Jehovah has destroyed them to this day;
\v 5 and what he did to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place;
\v 6 and what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben; how the earth opened its mouth, and
swallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the midst of all
Israel:
\v 7 but your eyes have seen all the great work of Jehovah which he did.
\p
\v 8 Therefore shall you keep all the commandment which I command you this day, that you may be strong, and go in and possess
the land, whither you go over to possess it;
\v 9 and that you may prolong your days in the land, which Jehovah sware to your fathers to give to them and to their seed,
a land flowing with milk and honey.
\v 10 For the land, whither you go in to possess it, is not as the land of Egypt, from whence you came out, where you
sowedst your seed, and wateredst it with your foot, as a garden of herbs;
\v 11 but the land, whither you go over to possess it, is a land of hills and valleys,
and drinks water of the rain of heaven,
\v 12 a land which Jehovah your God careth for: the eyes of Jehovah your God are always upon it, from the beginning of the year
even to the end of the year.
\p
\v 13 And it shall come to pass, if you shall listen diligently to my commandments which I command you this day, to love
Jehovah your God, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,
\v 14 that I will give the rain of your land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your
grain, and your new wine, and your oil.
\v 15 And I will give grass in your fields for your cattle, and you shall eat and be full.
\v 16 Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them;
\v 17 and the anger of Jehovah be kindled against you, and he shut up the heavens, so that there shall be no rain, and the land
shall not yield its fruit; and you perish quickly from off the good land which Jehovah gives you.
\p
\v 18 Therefore shall you lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul; and you shall bind them for a sign upon your
hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes.
\v 19 And you shall teach them your children, talking of them, when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way,
and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
\v 20 And you shall write them upon the door-posts of your house, and upon your gates;
\v 21 that your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in the land which Jehovah sware to your fathers to
give them, as the days of the heavens above the earth.
\v 22 For if you shall diligently keep all this commandment which I command you, to do it, to love Jehovah your God, to walk in
all his ways, and to cleave to him;
\v 23 then will Jehovah drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than
yourselves.
\v 24 Every place whereon the sole of your foot shall tread shall be yours: from the wilderness, and Lebanon, from the river,
the river Euphrates, even to the hinder sea shall be your border.
\v 25 There shall no man be able to stand before you: Jehovah your God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon all
the land that you shall tread upon, as he has spoken to you.
\p
\v 26 Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse:
\v 27 the blessing, if you shall listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I command you this day;
\v 28 and the curse, if you shall not listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, but turn aside out of the way which I
command you this day, to go after other gods, which you have not known.
\v 29 And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah your God shall bring you into the land whither you go to possess it, that
you shall set the blessing upon mount Gerizim, and the curse upon mount Ebal.
\v 30 Are they not beyond the Jordan, behind the way of the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites that dwell in
the Arabah, over against Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh?
\v 31 For you are to pass over the Jordan to go in to possess the land which Jehovah your God gives you, and you shall possess
it, and dwell therein.
\v 32 And you shall observe to do all the statutes and the ordinances which I set before you this day.