\c 12
\p
\v 1 These are the statutes and the ordinances which you shall observe to do in the land which Jehovah, the God of your fathers,
has given you to possess it, all the days that you live upon the earth.
\v 2 You shall surely destroy all the places wherein the nations that you shall dispossess served their gods, upon the high
mountains, and upon the hills, and under every green tree:
\v 3 and you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and burn their Asherim with fire; and you shall hew
down the graven images of their gods; and you shall destroy their name out of that place.
\v 4 You shall not do so to Jehovah your God.
\v 5 But to the place which Jehovah your God shall choose out of all your tribes, to put his name there, even to his
habitation shall you seek, and there you shall come;
\v 6 and there you shall bring your burnt-offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the heave-offering of your
hand, and your vows, and your freewill-offerings, and the firstlings of your herd and of your flock:
\v 7 and there you shall eat before Jehovah your God, and you shall rejoice in all that you put your hand unto, you and your
households, wherein Jehovah your God has blessed thee.
\v 8 You shall not do after all the things that we do here this day, every man whatever is right in his own eyes;
\v 9 for you are not as yout come to the rest and to the inheritance, which Jehovah your God gives thee.
\v 10 But when you go over the Jordan, and dwell in the land which Jehovah your God causes you to inherit, and he gives you
rest from all your enemies round about, so that you dwell in safety;
\v 11 then it shall come to pass that to the place which Jehovah your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there,
there shall you bring all that I command you: your burnt-offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the heave-offering
of your hand, and all your choice vows which you vow to Jehovah.
\v 12 And you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God, you, and your sons, and your daughters, and your men-servants, and your
maid-servants, and the Levite that is within your gates, forasmuch as he has no portion nor inheritance with you.
\v 13 Take heed to yourself that you offer not your burnt offerings in every place that you seest;
\v 14 but in the place which Jehovah shall choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt-offerings, and there
you shall do all that I command thee.
\p
\v 15 Notwithstanding, you may kill and eat flesh within all your gates, after all the desire of your soul, according to the
blessing of Jehovah your God which he has given thee: the unclean and the clean may eat thereof, as of the gazelle, and as of
the hart.
\v 16 Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out upon the earth as water.
\v 17 You may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, or of your new wine, or of your oil, or the firstlings of
your herd or of your flock, nor any of your vows which you vowest, nor your freewill-offerings, nor the heave-offering of your
hand;
\v 18 but you shall eat them before Jehovah your God in the place which Jehovah your God shall choose, you, and your son, and
your daughter, and your man-servant, and your maid-servant, and the Levite that is within your gates: and you shall rejoice before
Jehovah your God in all that you put your hand unto.
\v 19 Take heed to yourself that you forsake not the Levite as long as you live in your land.
\p
\v 20 When Jehovah your God shall enlarge your border, as he has promised thee, and you shall say, I will eat flesh, because
your soul desires to eat flesh; you may eat flesh, after all the desire of your soul.
\v 21 If the place which Jehovah your God shall choose, to put his name there, be too far from thee, then you shall kill of your
herd and of your flock, which Jehovah has given thee, as I have commanded thee; and you may eat within your gates, after all
the desire of your soul.
\v 22 Even as the gazelle and as the hart is eaten, so you shall eat thereof: the unclean and the clean may eat thereof alike.
\v 23 Only be sure that you eat not the blood: for the blood is the life; and you shall not eat the life with the flesh.
\v 24 You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out upon the earth as water.
\v 25 You shall not eat it; that it may go well with thee, and with your children after thee, when you shall do that which is
right in the eyes of Jehovah.
\v 26 Only your holy things which you hast, and your vows, you shall take, and go to the place which Jehovah shall choose;
\v 27 and you shall offer your burnt-offerings, the flesh and the blood, upon the altar of Jehovah your God; and the blood of
your sacrifices shall be poured out upon the altar of Jehovah your God; and you shall eat the flesh.
\v 28 Observe and hear all these words which I command you, that it may go well with you, and with your children after you
for ever, when you do that which is good and right in the eyes of Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 29 When Jehovah your God shall cut off the nations from before thee, whither you go in to dispossess them, and you
dispossessest them, and live in their land;
\v 30 take heed to yourself that you be not ensnared to follow them, after that they are destroyed from before thee; and that
you inquire not after their gods, saying, How do these nations serve their gods? even so will I do likewise.
\v 31 You shall not do so to Jehovah your God: for every abomination to Jehovah, which he hateth, have they done to their
gods; for even their sons and their daughters do they burn in the fire to their gods.
\p
\v 32 What thing soever I command you, that shall you observe to do: you shall not add thereto, nor diminish from it.