\c 13
\p
\v 1 If there arise in the midst of you a prophet, or a dreamer of dreams, and he give you a sign or a wonder,
\v 2 and the sign or the wonder come to pass, whereof he spoke to thee, saying, Let us go after other gods, which you have
not known, and let us serve them;
\v 3 you shall not listen to the words of that prophet, or to that dreamer of dreams: for Jehovah your God proves you,
to know whether you love Jehovah your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
\v 4 You shall walk after Jehovah your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and you shall serve him,
and cleave to him.
\v 5 And that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to death, because he has spoken rebellion against Jehovah your
God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, to draw you aside out of the way
which Jehovah your God commanded you to walk in. So shall you put away the evil from the midst of you.
\p
\v 6 If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son, or your daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend, that is as
your own soul, entice you secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which you have not known, you, nor your fathers;
\v 7 of the gods of the peoples that are round about you, near to thee, or far off from thee, from the one end of the earth
even to the other end of the earth;
\v 8 you shall not consent to him, nor listen to him; neither shall your eye pity him, neither shall you spare, neither
shall you conceal him:
\v 9 but you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the
people.
\v 10 And you shall stone him to death with stones, because he has sought to draw you away from Jehovah your God, who brought
you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
\v 11 And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do no more any such wickedness as this is in the midst of thee.
\p
\v 12 If you shall hear tell concerning one of your cities, which Jehovah your God gives you to dwell there, saying,
\v 13 Certain base fellows are gone out from the midst of thee, and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, Let
us go and serve other gods, which you have not known;
\v 14 then shall you inquire, and make search, and ask diligently; and, behold, if it be truth, and the thing certain, that
such abomination is wrought in the midst of thee,
\v 15 you shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is
therein and the cattle thereof, with the edge of the sword.
\v 16 And you shall gather all the spoil of it into the midst of the street thereof, and shall burn with fire the city, and
all the spoil thereof every whit, to Jehovah your God: and it shall be a heap for ever; it shall not be built again.
\v 17 And there shall cleave nothing of the devoted thing to your hand; that Jehovah may turn from the fierceness of his anger,
and show you mercy, and have compassion upon you, and multiply you, as he has sworn to your fathers;
\v 18 when you shall listen to the voice of Jehovah your God, to keep all his commandments which I command you this day, to
do that which is right in the eyes of Jehovah your God.