\c 15
\p
\v 1 At the end of every seven years you shall make a release.
\v 2 And this is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release that which he has lent to his neighbor; he shall
not exact it of his neighbor and his brother; because Jehovah’s release has been proclaimed.
\v 3 Of a foreigner you may exact it: but whatever of your is with your brother your hand shall release.
\v 4 Howbeit there shall be no poor with you (for Jehovah will surely bless you in the land which Jehovah your God gives you
for an inheritance to possess it),
\v 5 if only you diligently listen to the voice of Jehovah your God, to observe to do all this commandment which I command
you this day.
\v 6 For Jehovah your God will bless thee, as he promised thee: and you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not
borrow; and you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over thee.
\p
\v 7 If there be with you a poor man, one of your brethren, within any of your gates in your land which Jehovah your God gives
thee, you shall not harden your heart, nor shut your hand from your poor brother;
\v 8 but you shall surely open your hand to him, and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need
in that which he wanteth.
\v 9 Beware that there be not a base thought in your heart, saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and your
eye be evil against your poor brother, and you give him nought; and he cry to Jehovah against thee, and it be sin to thee.
\v 10 You shall surely give him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you give to him; because that for this thing
Jehovah your God will bless you in all your work, and in all that you put your hand unto.
\v 11 For the poor will never cease out of the land: therefore I command thee, saying, You shall surely open your hand to your
brother, to your needy, and to your poor, in your land.
\p
\v 12 If your brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman, be sold to you, and serve you six years; then in the seventh year
you shall let him go free from thee.
\v 13 And when you lettest him go free from thee, you shall not let him go empty:
\v 14 you shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, and out of your threshing-floor, and out of your winepress; as Jehovah
your God has blessed you you shall give to him.
\v 15 And you shall remember that you was a bondman in the land of Egypt, and Jehovah your God redeemed thee: therefore I
command you this thing to-day.
\v 16 And it shall be, if he say to you, I will not go out from you; because he loves you and your house, because he is
well with thee;
\v 17 then you shall take an awl, and thrust it through his ear to the door, and he shall be your servant for ever. And also
to your female servant you shall do likewise.
\v 18 It shall not seem hard to thee, when you lettest him go free from thee; for to the double of the hire of a hireling
has he served you six years: and Jehovah your God will bless you in all that you doest.
\p
\v 19 All the firstling males that are born of your herd and of your flock you shall sanctify to Jehovah your God: you shall
do no work with the firstling of your herd, nor shear the firstling of your flock.
\v 20 You shall eat it before Jehovah your God year by year in the place which Jehovah shall choose, you and your household.
\v 21 And if it have any blemish, as if it be lame or blind, any ill blemish whatsoever, you shall not sacrifice it
to Jehovah your God.
\v 22 You shall eat it within your gates: the unclean and the clean
shall eat it alike, as the gazelle, and as the hart.
\v 23 Only you shall not eat the blood thereof; you shall pour it out upon the ground as water.