\c 16
\p
\v 1 Observe the month of Abib, and keep the passover to Jehovah your God; for in the month of Abib Jehovah your God brought
you forth out of Egypt by night.
\v 2 And you shall sacrifice the passover to Jehovah your God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which Jehovah shall
choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
\v 3 You shall eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shall you eat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of
affliction; for you came forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that you may remember the day when you came forth
out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life.
\v 4 And there shall be no leaven seen with you in all your borders seven days; neither shall any of the flesh, which you
sacrificest the first day at even, remain all night until the morning.
\v 5 You may not sacrifice the passover within any of your gates, which Jehovah your God gives thee;
\v 6 but at the place which Jehovah your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell in, there you shall sacrifice the
passover at even, at the going down of the sun, at the season that you came forth out of Egypt.
\v 7 And you shall roast and eat it in the place which Jehovah your God shall choose: and you shall turn in the morning, and
go to your tents.
\v 8 Six days you shall eat unleavened bread; and on the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to Jehovah your God; you shall
do no work therein.
\p
\v 9 Seven weeks shall you number to thee: from the time you beginnest to put the sickle to the standing grain shall you
begin to number seven weeks.
\v 10 And you shall keep the feast of weeks to Jehovah your God with a tribute of a free will offering of your hand, which you
shall give, according as Jehovah your God blesses thee:
\v 11 and you shall rejoice before Jehovah your God, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your man-servant, and your
maid-servant, and the Levite that is within your gates, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are in the
midst of thee, in the place which Jehovah your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there.
\v 12 And you shall remember that you was a bondman in Egypt: and you shall observe and do these statutes.
\p
\v 13 You shall keep the feast of tabernacles seven days, after that you have gathered in from your threshing floor and from
your winepress:
\v 14 and you shall rejoice in your feast, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your man-servant, and your maid-servant, and
the Levite, and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are within your gates.
\v 15 Seven days shall you keep a feast to Jehovah your God in the place which Jehovah shall choose; because Jehovah your God
will bless you in all your increase, and in all the work of your hands, and you shall be altogether joyful.
\v 16 Three times in a year shall all your males appear before Jehovah your God in the place which he shall choose: in the feast
of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles; and they shall not appear before Jehovah
empty:
\v 17 every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of Jehovah your God which he has given thee.
\p
\v 18 Judges and officers shall you make you in all your gates, which Jehovah your God gives you, according to your tribes;
and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment.
\v 19 You shall not wrest justice: you shall not respect persons; neither shall you take a bribe; for a bribe does blind the
eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous.
\v 20 That which is altogether just shall you follow, that you may live, and inherit the land which Jehovah your God gives
thee.
\p
\v 21 You shall not plant you an Asherah of any kind of tree beside the altar of Jehovah your God, which you shall make you.
\v 22 Neither shall you set you up a pillar; which Jehovah your God hateth.