\c 17
\p
\v 1 You shall not sacrifice to Jehovah your God an ox, or a sheep, wherein is a blemish,
or anything evil; for that is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 2 If there be found in the midst of thee, within any of your gates which Jehovah your God gives thee, man or woman, that
does that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah your God, in transgressing his covenant,
\v 3 and has gone and served other gods, and worshipped them, or the sun, or the moon, or any of the host of heaven, which I
have not commanded,
\v 4 and it be told thee, and you have heard of it; then shall you inquire diligently; and, behold, if it be true, and the
thing certain, that such abomination is wrought in Israel,
\v 5 then shall you bring forth that man or that woman, who has done this evil thing, to your gates, even the man or the
woman; and you shall stone them to death with stones.
\v 6 At the mouth of two witnesses, or three witnesses, shall he that is to die be put to death; at the mouth of one witness he
shall not be put to death.
\v 7 The hand of the witnesses shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So you
shall put away the evil from the midst of thee.
\p
\v 8 If there arise a matter too hard for you in judgment, between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke
and stroke, being matters of controversy within your gates; then shall you arise, and get you up to the place which Jehovah
your God shall choose;
\v 9 and you shall come to the priests the Levites, and to the judge that shall be in those days: and you shall inquire;
and they shall show you the sentence of judgment.
\v 10 And you shall do according to the tenor of the sentence which they shall show you from that place which Jehovah shall
choose; and you shall observe to do according to all that they shall teach thee:
\v 11 according to the tenor of the law which they shall teach thee, and according to the judgment which they shall tell thee,
you shall do; you shall not turn aside from the sentence which they shall show thee, to the right hand, nor to the left.
\v 12 And the man that does presumptuously, in not hearkening to the priest that stands to minister there before Jehovah
your God, or to the judge, even that man shall die: and you shall put away the evil from Israel.
\v 13 And all the people shall hear, and fear, and do no more presumptuously.
\p
\v 14 When you are come to the land which Jehovah your God gives thee, and shall possess it, and shall dwell therein, and
shall say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are round about me;
\v 15 you shall surely set him king over thee, whom Jehovah your God shall choose: one from among your brethren shall you set
king over thee; you may not put a foreigner over thee, who is not your brother.
\v 16 Only he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he may multiply
horses; forasmuch as Jehovah has said to you, You shall henceforth return no more that way.
\v 17 Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart turn not away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself
silver and gold.
\p
\v 18 And it shall be, when he sits upon the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book,
out of that which is before the priests the Levites:
\v 19 and it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life; that he may learn to fear Jehovah his God,
to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them;
\v 20 that his heart be not lifted up above his brethren, and that he turn not aside from the commandment, to the right hand,
or to the left: to the end that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children, in the midst of Israel.