\c 18
\p
\v 1 The priests the Levites, even all the tribe of Levi, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel: they
shall eat the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, and his inheritance.
\v 2 And they shall have no inheritance among their brethren: Jehovah is their inheritance, as he has spoken to them.
\v 3 And this shall be the priests’ due from the people, from them that offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep, that they
shall give to the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.
\v 4 The first fruits of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep, shall you
give him.
\v 5 For Jehovah your God has chosen him out of all your tribes, to stand to minister in the name of Jehovah, him and his sons
for ever.
\p
\v 6 And if a Levite come from any of your gates out of all Israel, where he sojourneth, and come with all the desire of his
soul to the place which Jehovah shall choose;
\v 7 then he shall minister in the name of Jehovah his God, as all his brethren the Levites do, who stand there before Jehovah.
\v 8 They shall have like portions to eat, besides that which comes of the sale of his patrimony.
\p
\v 9 When you are come into the land which Jehovah your God gives thee, you shall not learn to do after the abominations of
those nations.
\v 10 There shall not be found with you any one that makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, one that uses
divination, one that practiseth augury, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer,
\v 11 or a charmer, or a consulter with a familiar spirit, or a wizard, or a necromancer.
\v 12 For whoever does these things is an abomination to Jehovah: and because of these abominations Jehovah your God does
drive them out from before thee.
\v 13 You shall be perfect with Jehovah your God.
\v 14 For these nations, that you shall dispossess, listen to them that practise augury, and to diviners; but as for
you, Jehovah your God has not suffered you so to do.
\p
\v 15 Jehovah your God will raise up to you a prophet from the midst of you, of your brethren, like to me; to him you
shall hearken;
\v 16 according to all that you desired of Jehovah your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear
again the voice of Jehovah my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I die not.
\v 17 And Jehovah said to me, They have well said that which they have spoken.
\v 18 I will raise them up a prophet from among their brethren, like to thee; and I will put my words in his mouth, and he
shall speak to them all that I shall command him.
\v 19 And it shall come to pass, that whoever will not listen to my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require
it of him.
\p
\v 20 But the prophet, that shall speak a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that
shall speak in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.
\v 21 And if you say in your heart, How shall we know the word which Jehovah has not spoken?
\v 22 when a prophet speaks in the name of Jehovah, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which
Jehovah has not spoken: the prophet has spoken it presumptuously, you shall not be afraid of him.