\c 19
\p
\v 1 When Jehovah your God shall cut off the nations, whose land Jehovah your God gives thee, and you succeedest them, and
live in their cities, and in their houses;
\v 2 you shall set apart three cities for you in the midst of your land, which Jehovah your God gives you to possess it.
\v 3 You shall prepare you the way, and divide the borders of your land, which Jehovah your God causes you to inherit, into
three parts, that every manslayer may flee thither.
\p
\v 4 And this is the case of the manslayer, that shall flee there and live: whoso kills his neighbor unawares, and hated
him not in time past;
\v 5 as when a man goes into the forest with his neighbor to hew wood, and his hand fetches a stroke with the axe to cut down
the tree, and the head slips from the helve, and lighteth upon his neighbor, so that he dieth; he shall flee to one of
these cities and live:
\v 6 lest the avenger of blood pursue the manslayer, while his heart is hot, and overtake him, because the way is long, and
strike him mortally; whereas he was not worthy of death, inasmuch as he hated him not in time past.
\v 7 Wherefore I command thee, saying, You shall set apart three cities for thee.
\v 8 And if Jehovah your God enlarge your border, as he has sworn to your fathers, and give you all the land which he promised
to give to your fathers;
\v 9 if you shall keep all this commandment to do it, which I command you this day, to love Jehovah your God, and to walk ever
in his ways; then shall you add three cities more for thee, besides these three:
\v 10 that innocent blood be not shed in the midst of your land, which Jehovah your God gives you for an inheritance, and so
blood be upon thee.
\p
\v 11 But if any man hate his neighbor, and lie in wait for him, and rise up against him, and strike him mortally so that he
dieth, and he flee into one of these cities;
\v 12 then the elders of his city shall send and fetch him thence, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, that
he may die.
\v 13 Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall put away the innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with thee.
\p
\v 14 You shall not remove your neighbor’s landmark, which they of old time have set, in your inheritance which you shall
inherit, in the land that Jehovah your God gives you to possess it.
\p
\v 15 One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity, or for any sin, in any sin that he sinneth: at the mouth of
two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall a matter be established.
\v 16 If an unrighteous witness rise up against any man to testify against him of wrong-doing,
\v 17 then both the men, between whom the controversy is, shall stand before Jehovah, before the priests and the judges that
shall be in those days;
\v 18 and the judges shall make diligent inquisition: and, behold, if the witness be a false witness, and have testified
falsely against his brother;
\v 19 then shall you do to him, as he had yought to do to his brother: so shall you put away the evil from the midst of
thee.
\v 20 And those that remain shall hear, and fear, and shall henceforth commit no more any such evil in the midst of thee.
\v 21 And your eyes shall not pity; life shall go for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for
foot.