\c 20
\p
\v 1 When you go forth to battle against your enemies, and see horses, and chariots,
and a people more than you, you shall not be afraid of them; for Jehovah your God is with you, who brought you up
out of the land of Egypt.
\v 2 And it shall be, when you draw near to the battle, that the priest shall approach and speak to the people,
\v 3 and shall say to them, Hear, O Israel, you draw near this day to battle against your enemies: let not your heart faint;
fear not, nor tremble, neither be you affrighted at them;
\v 4 for Jehovah your God is he that goes with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.
\v 5 And the officers shall speak to the people, saying, What man is there that has built a new house, and has not
dedicated it? let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man dedicate it.
\v 6 And what man is there that has planted a vineyard, and has not used the fruit thereof? let him go and return to his
house, lest he die in the battle, and another man use the fruit thereof.
\v 7 And what man is there that has betrothed a wife, and has not taken her? let him go and return to his house, lest he
die in the battle, and another man take her.
\v 8 And the officers shall speak further to the people, and they shall say, What man is there that is fearful and
faint-hearted? let him go and return to his house, lest his brethren’s heart melt as his heart.
\v 9 And it shall be, when the officers have made an end of speaking to the people, that they shall appoint captains of hosts
at the head of the people.
\p
\v 10 When you drawest near to a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace to it.
\v 11 And it shall be, if it make you answer of peace, and open to you, then it shall be, that all the people that are
found therein shall become tributary to thee, and shall serve thee.
\v 12 And if it will make no peace with thee, but will make war against thee, then you shall besiege it:
\v 13 and when Jehovah your God delivers it into your hand, you shall strike every male thereof with the edge of the sword:
\v 14 but the women, and the little ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city, even all the spoil thereof, shall you
take for a prey to yourself; and you shall eat the spoil of your enemies, which Jehovah your God has given thee.
\v 15 Thus shall you do to all the cities which are very far off from thee, which are not of the cities of these nations.
\v 16 But of the cities of these peoples, that Jehovah your God gives you for an inheritance, you shall save alive nothing
that breatheth;
\v 17 but you shall utterly destroy them: the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the
Jebusite; as Jehovah your God has commanded thee;
\v 18 that they teach you not to do after all their abominations, which they have done to their gods; so would you sin against
Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 19 When you shall besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy the trees thereof
by wielding an axe against them; for you may eat of them, and you shall not cut them down; for is the tree of the field
man, that it should be besieged of thee?
\v 20 Only the trees of which you know that they are not trees for food, you shall destroy and cut them down; and you
shall build bulwarks against the city that makes war with thee, until it fall.