\c 21
\p
\v 1 If one be found slain in the land which Jehovah your God gives you to possess it, lying in the field, and it be not known
who has struck him;
\v 2 then your elders and your judges shall come forth, and they shall measure to the cities which are round about him that is
slain:
\v 3 and it shall be, that the city which is nearest to the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take a heifer of
the herd, which has not been wrought with, and which has not drawn in the yoke;
\v 4 and the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer to a valley with running water, which is neither plowed nor
sown, and shall break the heifer’s neck there in the valley.
\v 5 And the priests the sons of Levi shall come near; for them Jehovah your God has chosen to minister to him, and to bless
in the name of Jehovah; and according to their word shall every controversy and every stroke be.
\v 6 And all the elders of that city, who are nearest to the slain man, shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was
broken in the valley;
\v 7 and they shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it.
\v 8 Forgive, O Jehovah, your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and suffer not innocent blood
to remain in the midst of your people Israel. And the blood shall be forgiven them.
\v 9 So shall you put away the innocent blood from the midst of thee, when you shall do that which is right in the eyes of
Jehovah.
\p
\v 10 When you go forth to battle against your enemies, and Jehovah your God delivers them into your hands, and you
carriest them away captive,
\v 11 and see among the captives a beautiful woman, and you have a desire to her, and would take her to you to wife;
\v 12 then you shall bring her home to your house; and she shall shave her head, and pare her nails;
\v 13 and she shall put the raiment of her captivity from off her, and shall remain in your house, and bewail her father and her
mother a full month: and after that you shall go in to her, and be her husband, and she shall be your wife.
\v 14 And it shall be, if you have no delight in her, then you shall let her go whither she will; but you shall not sell her
at all for money, you shall not deal with her as a slave, because you have humbled her.
\p
\v 15 If a man have two wives, the one beloved, and the other hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved and the
hated; and if the firstborn son be hers that was hated;
\v 16 then it shall be, in the day that he causes his sons to inherit that which he hath, that he may not make the son of the
beloved the firstborn before the son of the hated, who is the firstborn:
\v 17 but he shall acknowledge the first-born, the son of the hated, by giving him a double portion of all that he hath; for he
is the beginning of his strength; the right of the firstborn is his.
\p
\v 18 If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, that will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and,
though they chasten him, will not listen to them;
\v 19 then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out to the elders of his city, and to the gate of
his place;
\v 20 and they shall say to the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he
is a glutton, and a drunkard.
\v 21 And all the men of his city shall stone him to death with stones: so shall you put away the evil from the midst of thee;
and all Israel shall hear, and fear.
\p
\v 22 And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be put to death, and you hang him on a tree;
\v 23 his body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but you shall surely bury him the same day; for he that is hanged is
accursed of God; that you defile not your land which Jehovah your God gives you for an inheritance.