\c 22
\p
\v 1 You shall not see your brother’s ox or his sheep go astray, and hide yourself from them: you shall surely bring them again
to your brother.
\v 2 And if your brother be not near to thee, or if you know him not, then you shall bring it home to your house, and it
shall be with you until your brother seek after it, and you shall restore it to him.
\v 3 And so shall you do with his ass; and so shall you do with his garment; and so shall you do with every lost thing of
your brother’s, which he has lost, and you have found: you may not hide yourself.
\v 4 You shall not see your brother’s ass or his ox fallen down by the way, and hide yourself from them: you shall surely help
him to lift them up again.
\p
\v 5 A woman shall not wear that which pertaineth to a man, neither shall a man put on a woman’s garment; for whoever does
these things is an abomination to Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 6 If a bird’s nest chance to be before you in the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, and the dam
sitting upon the young, or upon the eggs, you shall not take the dam with the young:
\v 7 you shall surely let the dam go, but the young you may take to thyself; that it may be well with thee, and that
you may prolong your days.
\p
\v 8 When you buildest a new house, then you shall make a battlement for your roof, that you bring not blood upon your house,
if any man fall from thence.
\p
\v 9 You shall not sow your vineyard with two kinds of seed, lest the whole fruit be forfeited, the seed which you have sown,
and the increase of the vineyard.
\v 10 You shall not plow with an ox and an ass together.
\v 11 You shall not wear a mingled stuff, wool and linen together.
\p
\v 12 You shall make you fringes upon the four borders of your vesture, wherewith you coverest yourself.
\p
\v 13 If any man take a wife, and go in to her, and hate her,
\v 14 and lay shameful things to her charge, and bring up an evil name upon her, and say, I took this woman, and when I came
near to her, I found not in her the tokens of virginity;
\v 15 then shall the father of the damsel, and her mother, take and bring forth the tokens of the damsel’s virginity to the
elders of the city in the gate;
\v 16 and the damsel’s father shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he hates her;
\v 17 and, lo, he has laid shameful things to her charge, saying, I found not in your daughter the tokens of
virginity; and yet these are the tokens of my daughter’s virginity. And they shall spread the garment before the elders of the
city.
\v 18 And the elders of that city shall take the man and chastise him;
\v 19 and they shall fine him a hundred shekels of silver, and give them to the father of the damsel, because he
has brought up an evil name upon a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his wife; he may not put her away all his days.
\v 20 But if this thing be true, that the tokens of virginity were not found in the damsel;
\v 21 then they shall bring out the damsel to the door of her father’s house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death
with stones, because she has wrought folly in Israel, to play the harlot in her father’s house: so shall you put away the
evil from the midst of thee.
\p
\v 22 If a man be found lying with a woman married to a husband, then they shall both of them die, the man that lay with the
woman, and the woman: so shall you put away the evil from Israel.
\p
\v 23 If there be a damsel that is a virgin betrothed to a husband, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her;
\v 24 then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones; the damsel,
because she cried not, being in the city; and the man, because he has humbled his neighbor’s wife: so you shall put away the
evil from the midst of thee.
\p
\v 25 But if the man find the damsel that is betrothed in the field, and the man force her, and lie with her; then the man only
that lay with her shall die:
\v 26 but to the damsel you shall do nothing; there is in the damsel no sin worthy of death: for as when a man rises
against his neighbor, and kills him, even so is this matter;
\v 27 for he found her in the field, the betrothed damsel cried, and there was none to save her.
\p
\v 28 If a man find a damsel that is a virgin, that is not betrothed, and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found;
\v 29 then the man that lay with her shall give to the damsel’s father fifty
shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he has humbled her; he may not put her away all his days.
\p
\v 30 A man shall not take his father’s wife, and shall not uncover his father’s skirt.