\c 24
\p
\v 1 When a man takes a wife, and marrieth her, then it shall be, if she find no favor in his eyes, because he has found some
unseemly thing in her, that he shall write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house.
\v 2 And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and be another man’s
wife.
\v 3 And if the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his
house; or if the latter husband die, who took her to be his wife;
\v 4 her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is
abomination before Jehovah: and you shall not cause the land to sin, which Jehovah your God gives you for an inheritance.
\p
\v 5 When a man takes a new wife, he shall not go out in the host, neither shall he be charged with any business: he shall be
free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he has taken.
\p
\v 6 No man shall take the mill or the upper millstone to pledge; for he takes
a man’s life to pledge.
\p
\v 7 If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and he deal with him as a slave, or sell him;
then that thief shall die: so shall you put away the evil from the midst of thee.
\p
\v 8 Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that you observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites
shall teach you: as I commanded them, so you shall observe to do.
\v 9 Remember what Jehovah your God did to Miriam, by the way as you came forth out of Egypt.
\p
\v 10 When you do lend your neighbor any manner of loan, you shall not go into his house to fetch his pledge.
\v 11 You shall stand wiyout, and the man to whom you do lend shall bring forth the pledge wiyout to thee.
\v 12 And if he be a poor man, you shall not sleep with his pledge;
\v 13 you shall surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his garment, and bless thee:
and it shall be righteousness to you before Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 14 You shall not oppress a hired servant that is poor and needy, whether he be of your brethren, or of your sojourners that
are in your land within your gates:
\v 15 in his day you shall give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it (for he is poor, and sets his heart
upon it); lest he cry against you to Jehovah, and it be sin to you.
\p
\v 16 The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every
man shall be put to death for his own sin.
\p
\v 17 You shall not wrest the justice due to the sojourner,
or to the fatherless, nor take the widow’s raiment to pledge;
\v 18 but you shall remember that you was a bondman in Egypt, and Jehovah your God redeemed you thence: therefore I command
you to do this thing.
\p
\v 19 When you reap your harvest in your field, and have forgot a sheaf in the field, you shall not go again to fetch it: it
shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; that Jehovah your God may bless you in all the work of your
hands.
\v 20 When you beatest your olive-tree, you shall not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the sojourner, for the
fatherless, and for the widow.
\v 21 When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean it after thee: it shall be for the
sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
\v 22 And you shall remember that you was a bondman in the land of Egypt: therefore I command you to do this thing.