\c 25
\p
\v 1 If there be a controversy between men, and they come to judgment, and
the judges judge them; then they shall justify the righteous, and condemn the wicked.
\v 2 And it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten
before his face, according to his wickedness, by number.
\v 3 Forty stripes he may give him, he shall not exceed; lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with many stripes,
then your brother should seem vile to thee.
\p
\v 4 You shall not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the grain.
\p
\v 5 If brethren dwell together, and one of them die, and have no son, the wife of the dead shall not be married without to a
stranger: her husband’s brother shall go in to her, and take her to him to wife, and perform the duty of a husband’s brother
to her.
\v 6 And it shall be, that the firstborn that she bears shall succeed in the name of his brother that is dead, that his name
be not blotted out of Israel.
\v 7 And if the man like not to take his brother’s wife, then his brother’s wife shall go up to the gate to the elders, and
say, My husband’s brother refuseth to raise up to his brother a name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband’s
brother to me.
\v 8 Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak to him: and if he stand, and say, I like not to take her;
\v 9 then shall his brother’s wife come to him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit
in his face; and she shall answer and say, So shall it be done to the man that does not build up his brother’s house.
\v 10 And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him that has his shoe loosed.
\p
\v 11 When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draweth near to deliver her husband out of the hand of
him that smiteth him, and puts forth her hand, and takes him by the secrets;
\v 12 then you shall cut off her hand, your eye shall have no pity.
\p
\v 13 You shall not have in your bag diverse weights, a great and a small.
\v 14 You shall not have in your house diverse measures, a great and a small.
\v 15 A perfect and just weight shall you have; a perfect and just measure shall you have: that your days may be long in the
land which Jehovah your God gives thee.
\v 16 For all that do such things, even all that do unrighteously, are an abomination to Jehovah your God.
\p
\v 17 Remember what Amalek did to you by the way as you came forth out of Egypt;
\v 18 how he met you by the way, and struck the hindmost of you, all that were feeble behind you, when you was faint and
weary; and he feared not God.
\v 19 Therefore it shall be, when Jehovah your God has given you rest from all your enemies round about, in the land which
Jehovah your God gives you for an inheritance to possess it, that you shall blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under
heaven; you shall not forget.