\c 26
\p
\v 1 And it shall be, when you are come in to the land which Jehovah your God gives you for an inheritance, and possessest
it, and live therein,
\v 2 that you shall take of the first of all the fruit of the ground, which you shall bring in from your land that Jehovah your
God gives thee; and you shall put it in a basket, and shall go to the place which Jehovah your God shall choose, to cause
his name to dwell there.
\v 3 And you shall come to the priest that shall be in those days, and say to him, I profess this day to Jehovah your
God, that I am come to the land which Jehovah sware to our fathers to give us.
\v 4 And the priest shall take the basket out of your hand, and set it down before the altar of Jehovah your God.
\v 5 And you shall answer and say before Jehovah your God, A Syrian ready to perish was my father; and he went down into Egypt,
and sojourned there, few in number; and he became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous.
\v 6 And the Egyptians dealt ill with us, and afflicted us, and laid upon us hard bondage:
\v 7 and we cried to Jehovah, the God of our fathers, and Jehovah heard our voice, and saw our affliction, and our toil, and
our oppression;
\v 8 and Jehovah brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terribleness,
and with signs, and with wonders;
\v 9 and he has brought us into this place, and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
\v 10 And now, behold, I have brought the first of the fruit of the ground, which you, O Jehovah, have given me. And you
shall set it down before Jehovah your God, and worship before Jehovah your God:
\v 11 and you shall rejoice in all the good which Jehovah your God has given to thee, and to your house, you, and the
Levite, and the sojourner that is in the midst of thee.
\p
\v 12 When you have made an end of tithing all the tithe of your increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing,
then you shall give it to the Levite, to the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, that they may eat within your
gates, and be filled.
\v 13 And you shall say before Jehovah your God, I have put away the hallowed things out of my house, and also have given them
to the Levite, and to the sojourner, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all your commandment which you have
commanded me: I have not transgressed any of your commandments, neither have I forgotten them:
\v 14 I have not eaten thereof in my mourning, neither have I put away thereof, being unclean, nor given thereof for the dead:
I have listened to the voice of Jehovah my God; I have done according to all that you have commanded me.
\v 15 Look down from your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless your people Israel, and the ground which you have given us, as
you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.
\p
\v 16 This day Jehovah your God commands you to do these statutes and ordinances: you shall therefore keep and do them with
all your heart, and with all your soul.
\v 17 You have avouched Jehovah this day to be your God, and that you would walk in his ways, and keep his statutes, and
his commandments, and his ordinances, and listen to his voice:
\v 18 and Jehovah has avouched you this day to be a people for his own possession, as he has promised you, and that you
should keep all his commandments;
\v 19 and to make you high above all nations that he has made, in praise, and in name, and in honor; and that you may be
a holy people to Jehovah your God, as he has spoken.