\c 28
\p
\v 1 And it shall come to pass, if you shall listen diligently to the voice of Jehovah your God, to observe to do all his
commandments which I command you this day, that Jehovah your God will set you on high above all the nations of the earth:
\v 2 and all these blessings shall come upon thee, and overtake thee, if you shall listen to the voice of Jehovah your God.
\v 3 Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field.
\v 4 Blessed shall be the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, and the fruit of your beasts, the increase of your
cattle, and the young of your flock.
\v 5 Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading-trough.
\v 6 Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out.
\p
\v 7 Jehovah will cause your enemies that rise up against you to be struck before you: they shall come out against you one
way, and shall flee before you seven ways.
\v 8 Jehovah will command the blessing upon you in your barns, and in all that you put your hand unto; and he will bless
you in the land which Jehovah your God gives you.
\v 9 Jehovah will establish you for a holy people to himself, as he has sworn to you; if you shall keep the
commandments of Jehovah your God, and walk in his ways.
\v 10 And all the peoples of the eareh shall see that you are called by the name of Jehovah; and they shall be afraid of thee.
\v 11 And Jehovah will make you plenteous for good, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of your cattle, and in the fruit
of your ground, in the land which Jehovah sware to your fathers to give thee.
\v 12 Jehovah will open to you his good treasure the heavens, to give the rain of your land in its season, and to bless all
the work of your hand: and you shall lend to many nations, and you shall not borrow.
\v 13 And Jehovah will make you the head, and not the tail; and you shall be above only, and you shall not be beneath; if
you shall listen to the commandments of Jehovah your God, which I command you this day, to observe and to do
them,
\v 14 and shall not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to go
after other gods to serve them.
\p
\v 15 But it shall come to pass, if you will not listen to the voice of Jehovah your God, to observe to do all his
commandments and his statutes which I command you this day, that all these curses shall come upon you, and overtake you.
\v 16 Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field.
\v 17 Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading-trough.
\v 18 Cursed shall be the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your ground, the increase of your cattle, and the young of your
flock.
\v 19 Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out.
\p
\v 20 Jehovah will send upon you cursing, discomfiture, and rebuke, in all that you put your hand to to do, until you
be destroyed, and until you perish quickly; because of the evil of your doings, whereby you have forsaken me.
\v 21 Jehovah will make the pestilence cleave to you, until he have consumed you from off the land, whither you go in
to possess it.
\v 22 Jehovah will strike you with consumption, and with fever, and with inflammation, and with fiery heat, and with the sword,
and with blasting, and with mildew; and they shall pursue you until you perish.
\v 23 And your heaven that is over your head shall be brass, and the earth that is under you shall be iron.
\v 24 Jehovah will make the rain of your land powder and dust: from heaven shall it come down upon thee, until you be
destroyed.
\p
\v 25 Jehovah will cause you to be struck before your enemies; you shall go out one way against them, and shall flee seven
ways before them: and you shall be tossed to and from among all the kingdoms of the earth.
\v 26 And your dead body shall be food to all birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; and there shall be none
to frighten them away.
\v 27 Jehovah will strike you with the boil of Egypt, and with the emerods, and with the scurvy, and with the itch, whereof
you can not be healed.
\v 28 Jehovah will strike you with madness, and with blindness, and with astonishment of heart;
\v 29 and you shall grope at noonday, as the blind gropeth in darkness, and you shall not prosper in your ways: and you shall
be only oppressed and robbed alway, and there shall be none to save thee.
\v 30 You shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: you shall build a house, and you shall not dwell
therein: you shall plant a vineyard, and shall not use the fruit thereof.
\v 31 Your ox shall be slain before your eyes, and you shall not eat thereof: your ass shall be violently taken away from
before your face, and shall not be restored to thee: your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you shall have none to
save thee.
\v 32 Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people; and your eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them
all the day: and there shall be nothing in the power of your hand.
\v 33 The fruit of your ground, and all your labors, shall a nation which you know not eat up; and you shall be only
oppressed and crushed alway;
\v 34 so that you shall be mad for the sight of your eyes which you shall see.
\v 35 Jehovah will strike you in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore boil, whereof you can not be healed, from the sole
of your foot to the crown of your head.
\p
\v 36 Jehovah will bring thee, and your king whom you shall set over thee, to a nation that you have not known, you nor your
fathers; and there shall you serve other gods, wood and stone.
\v 37 And you shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all the peoples whither Jehovah shall lead you
away.
\v 38 You shall carry much seed out into the field, and shall gather little in; for the locust shall consume it.
\v 39 You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine, nor gather
the grapes; for the worm shall eat them.
\v 40 You shall have olive-trees throughout all your borders, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil; for your olive
shall cast its fruit.
\v 41 You shall beget sons and daughters, but they shall not be thine; for they shall go into captivity.
\v 42 All your trees and the fruit of your ground shall the locust possess.
\v 43 The sojourner that is in the midst of you shall mount up above you higher and higher; and you shall come down lower
and lower.
\v 44 He shall lend to thee, and you shall not lend to him: he shall be the head, and you shall be the tail.
\v 45 And all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall pursue thee, and overtake thee, till you be destroyed; because you
hearkenedst not to the voice of Jehovah your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded thee:
\v 46 and they shall be upon you for a sign and for a wonder, and upon your seed for ever.
\p
\v 47 Because you servedst not Jehovah your God with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, by reason of the abundance of all
things;
\v 48 therefore shall you serve your enemies that Jehovah shall send against thee, in hunger, and in thirst, and in
nakedness, and in lack of all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron upon your neck, until he have destroyed thee.
\v 49 Jehovah will bring a nation against you from far, from the end of the earth, as the eagle flieth; a nation whose tongue
you shall not understand;
\v 50 a nation of fierce countenance, that shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young,
\v 51 and shall eat the fruit of your cattle, and the fruit of your ground, until you be destroyed; that also shall not leave
you grain, new wine, or oil, the increase of your cattle, or the young of your flock, until they have caused you to perish.
\v 52 And they shall besiege you in all your gates, until your high and fortified walls come down, wherein you trustedst,
throughout all your land; and they shall besiege you in all your gates throughout all your land, which Jehovah your God has given
thee.
\v 53 And you shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and of your daughters, whom Jehovah your God has
given thee, in the siege and in the distress wherewith your enemies shall distress thee.
\v 54 The man that is tender among you, and very delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and toward the wife of his
bosom, and toward the remnant of his children whom he has remaining;
\v 55 so that he will not give to any of them of the flesh of his children whom he shall eat, because he has nothing left him,
in the siege and in the distress wherewith your enemy shall distress you in all your gates.
\v 56 The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not adventure to set the sole of her foot upon the ground for
delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her
daughter,
\v 57 and toward her young one that comes out from between her feet, and toward her children whom she shall bear; for she
shall eat them for lack of all things secretly, in the siege and in the distress wherewith your enemy shall distress you in
your gates.
\p
\v 58 If you will not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this
glorious and fearful name, JEHOVAH THY GOD;
\v 59 then Jehovah will make your plagues wonderful, and the plagues of your seed, even great plagues, and of long continuance,
and sore sicknesses, and of long continuance.
\v 60 And he will bring upon you again all the diseases of Egypt, which you was afraid of; and they shall cleave to you.
\v 61 Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, them will Jehovah bring upon thee,
until you be destroyed.
\v 62 And you shall be left few in number, whereas you were as the stars of heaven for multitude; because you did not listen
to the voice of Jehovah your God.
\v 63 And it shall come to pass, that, as Jehovah rejoiced over you to do you good, and to multiply you, so Jehovah will
rejoice over you to cause you to perish, and to destroy you; and you shall be plucked from off the land whither you go in to
possess it.
\v 64 And Jehovah will scatter you among all peoples, from the one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth; and
there you shall serve other gods, which you have not known, you nor your fathers, even wood and stone.
\v 65 And among these nations shall you find no ease, and there shall be no rest for the sole of your foot: but Jehovah will
give you there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and pining of soul;
\v 66 and your life shall hang in doubt before thee; and you shall fear night and day, and shall have no assurance of your life.
\v 67 In the morning you shall say, Would it were even! and at even you shall say, Would it were morning! for the fear of your
heart which you shall fear, and for the sight of your eyes which you shall see.
\v 68 And Jehovah will bring you into Egypt again with ships, by the way whereof I said to you, You shall see it no more
again: and there you shall sell yourselves to your enemies for bondmen and for bondwomen, and no man shall buy you.