\c 29
\p
\v 1 These are the words of the covenant which Jehovah commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab,
besides the covenant which he made with them in Horeb.
\p
\v 2 And Moses called to all Israel, and said to them, You have seen all that Jehovah did before your eyes in the land of
Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land;
\v 3 the great trials which your eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders:
\v 4 but Jehovah has not given you a heart to know, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, to this day.
\v 5 And I have led you forty years in the wilderness: your clothes are not waxed old upon you, and your shoe is not waxed old
upon your foot.
\v 6 You have not eaten bread, neither have you drunk wine or strong drink; that you may know that I am Jehovah your God.
\v 7 And when you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, came out against us to battle,
and we struck them:
\v 8 and we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of
the Manassites.
\v 9 Keep therefore the words of this covenant, and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do.
\p
\v 10 You stand this day all of you before Jehovah your God; your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all
the men of Israel,
\v 11 your little ones, your wives, and your sojourner that is in the midst of your camps, from the hewer of your wood to the
drawer of your water;
\v 12 that you may enter into the covenant of Jehovah your God, and into his oath, which Jehovah your God makes with you
this day;
\v 13 that he may establish you this day to himself for a people, and that he may be to you a God, as he spoke to you,
and as he sware to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
\p
\v 14 Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath,
\v 15 but with him that stands here with us this day before Jehovah our God, and also with him that is not here with us this
day
\v 16 (for you know how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations through which you passed;
\v 17 and you have seen their abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them);
\v 18 lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turns away this day from Jehovah our
God, to go to serve the gods of those nations; lest there should be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood;
\v 19 and it come to pass, when he hears the words of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, I shall have
peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to destroy the moist with the dry.
\v 20 Jehovah will not pardon him, but then the anger of Jehovah and his jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the
curse that is written in this book shall lie upon him, and Jehovah will blot out his name from under heaven.
\v 21 And Jehovah will set him apart to evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant
that is written in this book of the law.
\p
\v 22 And the generation to come, your children that shall rise up after you, and the foreigner that shall come from a far
land, shall say, when they see the plagues of that land, and the sicknesses wherewith Jehovah has made it sick;
\v 23 and that the whole land thereof is brimstone, and salt,
and a burning, that it is not sown, nor beareth, nor any grass grows therein, like the overthrow of Sodom
and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, which Jehovah overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath:
\v 24 even all the nations shall say, Wherefore has Jehovah done thus to this land? what meaneth the heat of this great
anger?
\v 25 Then men shall say, Because they forsook the covenant of Jehovah, the God of their fathers, which he made with them when
he brought them forth out of the land of Egypt,
\v 26 and went and served other gods, and worshipped them, gods that they knew not, and that he had not given to them:
\v 27 therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against this land, to bring upon it all the curse that is written in this
book;
\v 28 and Jehovah rooted them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another
land, as at this day.
\v 29 The secret things belong to Jehovah our God; but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children for
ever, that we may do all the words of this law.