\c 30
\p
\v 1 And it shall come to pass, when all these things are come upon thee, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before
thee, and you shall call them to mind among all the nations, whither Jehovah your God has driven thee,
\v 2 and shall return to Jehovah your God, and shall obey his voice according to all that I command you this day, you and
your children, with all your heart, and with all your soul;
\v 3 that then Jehovah your God will turn your captivity, and have compassion upon you, and will return and gather you from all
the peoples, whither Jehovah your God has scattered thee.
\v 4 If any of your outcasts be in the uttermost parts of heaven, from thence will Jehovah your God gather thee, and
from thence will he fetch thee:
\v 5 and Jehovah your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it; and he will do
you good, and multiply you above your fathers.
\v 6 And Jehovah your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your seed, to love Jehovah your God with all your heart, and
with all your soul, that you may live.
\v 7 And Jehovah your God will put all these curses upon your enemies, and on them that hate thee, that persecuted thee.
\v 8 And you shall return and obey the voice of Jehovah, and do all his commandments which I command you this day.
\v 9 And Jehovah your God will make you plenteous in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, and in the fruit of
your cattle, and in the fruit of your ground, for good: for Jehovah will again rejoice over you for good, as he rejoiced over
your fathers;
\v 10 if you shall obey the voice of Jehovah your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which are written in this book
of the law; if you turn to Jehovah your God with all your heart, and with all your soul.
\p
\v 11 For this commandment which I command you this day, it is not too hard for you, neither is it far off.
\v 12 It is not in heaven, that you should say, Who shall go up for us to heaven, and bring it to us, and make us to hear
it, that we may do it?
\v 13 Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, Who shall go over the sea for us, and bring it to us, and make
us to hear it, that we may do it?
\v 14 But the word is very near to thee, in your mouth, and in your heart, that you may do it.
\p
\v 15 See, I have set before you this day life and good, and death and evil;
\v 16 in that I command you this day to love Jehovah your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his
statutes and his ordinances, that you may live and multiply, and that Jehovah your God may bless you in the land whither
you go in to possess it.
\v 17 But if your heart turn away, and you will not hear, but shall be drawn away, and worship other gods, and serve them;
\v 18 I denounce to you this day, that you shall surely perish; you shall not prolong your days in the land, whither you
passest over the Jordan to go in to possess it.
\v 19 I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the
curse: therefore choose life, that you may live, you and your seed;
\v 20 to love Jehovah your God, to obey his voice, and to cleave to him; for he is your life, and the length of your days; that
you may dwell in the land which Jehovah sware to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.