\c 31
\p
\v 1 And Moses went and spoke these words to all Israel.
\v 2 And he said to them, I am a hundred and twenty years old this day; I can no more go out and come in: and Jehovah has
said to me, You shall not go over this Jordan.
\v 3 Jehovah your God, he will go over before thee; he will destroy these nations from before thee, and you shall dispossess
them: and Joshua, he shall go over before thee, as Jehovah has spoken.
\v 4 And Jehovah will do to them as he did to Sihon and to Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land; whom he
destroyed.
\v 5 And Jehovah will deliver them up before you, and you shall do to them according to all the commandment which I have
commanded you.
\v 6 Be strong and of good courage, fear not, nor be affrighted at them: for Jehovah your God, he it is that does go with thee;
he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.
\v 7 And Moses called to Joshua, and said to him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong and of good courage: for you shall
go with this people into the land which Jehovah has sworn to their fathers to give them; and you shall cause them to
inherit it.
\v 8 And Jehovah, he it is that does go before thee; he will be with thee, he will not fail thee, neither forsake thee: fear
not, neither be dismayed.
\p
\v 9 And Moses wrote this law, and delivered it to the priests the sons of Levi, that bare the ark of the covenant of
Jehovah, and to all the elders of Israel.
\v 10 And Moses commanded them, saying, At the end of every seven years, in the set time of the year of release, in
the feast of tabernacles,
\v 11 when all Israel is come to appear before Jehovah your God in the place which he shall choose, you shall read this law
before all Israel in their hearing.
\v 12 Assemble the people, the men and the women and the little ones, and your sojourner that is within your gates, that they may
hear, and that they may learn, and fear Jehovah your God, and observe to do all the words of this law;
\v 13 and that their children, who have not known, may hear, and learn to fear Jehovah your God, as long as you live in the land
whither you go over the Jordan to possess it.
\p
\v 14 And Jehovah said to Moses, Behold, your days approach that you must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in the
tent of meeting, that I may give him a charge. And Moses and Joshua went, and presented themselves in the tent of meeting.
\v 15 And Jehovah appeared in the Tent in a pillar of cloud: and the pillar of cloud stood over the door of the Tent.
\v 16 And Jehovah said to Moses, Behold, you shall sleep with your fathers; and this people will rise up, and play the harlot
after the strange gods of the land, whither they go to be among them, and will forsake me, and break my covenant which I have
made with them.
\v 17 Then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and
they shall be devoured, and many evils and troubles shall come upon them; so that they will say in that day, Are not these
evils come upon us because our God is not among us?
\v 18 And I will surely hide my face in that day for all the evil which they shall have wrought, in that they are turned to
other gods.
\v 19 Now therefore write you this song for you, and teach you it the children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this
song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel.
\v 20 For when I shall have brought them into the land which I sware to their fathers, flowing with milk and honey, and they
shall have eaten and filled themselves, and waxed fat; then will they turn to other gods, and serve them, and despise me, and
break my covenant.
\v 21 And it shall come to pass, when many evils and troubles are come upon them, that this song shall testify before them as a
witness; for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed: for I know their imagination which they frame this day,
before I have brought them into the land which I sware.
\v 22 So Moses wrote this song the same day, and taught it the children of Israel.
\v 23 And he gave Joshua the son of Nun a charge, and said, Be strong and of good courage; for you shall bring the children of
Israel into the land which I sware to them: and I will be with thee.
\p
\v 24 And it came to pass, when Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they were finished,
\v 25 that Moses commanded the Levites, that bare the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, saying,
\v 26 Take this book of the law, and put it by the side of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah your God, that it may be there
for a witness against thee.
\v 27 For I know your rebellion, and your stiff neck: behold, while I am yout alive with you this day, you have been rebellious
against Jehovah; and how much more after my death?
\v 28 Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may speak these words in their ears, and call
heaven and earth to witness against them.
\v 29 For I know that after my death you will utterly corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded
you; and evil will befall you in the latter days; because you will do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah, to provoke him
to anger through the work of your hands.
\p
\v 30 And Moses spoke in the ears of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song, until they were finished.