===== Level 3 Check =====

This module answers the question: How do I do a level 3 check?\\
Before you start this module have you learned about: [[en:ta:vol1:checking:intro_levels|Introduction to the Checking Levels]]

Checking Level Three - Authenticated Check
Level Three checking will be done by groups or organizations that are recognized by the churches in a language community. These groups will verify that they approve of the distribution and use of the translation among the people affiliated with them. This approval is not required for distribution of the translation, but rather serves to validate it. 
Level Three checking can be achieved by following either of two tracks. For Track One, the checking will be done by at least three church networks, and for Track Two, the checking will be done by at least one church network and by a recognized Bible translation agency. Those who do Level Three checking need to be other than the people who did Level Two checking. 

Level Three, Track One (Three Church Networks)
The first track is completed when the content has been thoroughly checked by representatives of at least three separate Church networks. The Church networks should be representative of the churches in the language community. Those checking the translation must be first-language speakers of the language, and those signing off on the check must be in leadership roles in the Church networks. A leader of a Church network who is also a first-language speaker of the language of the translation may both check the translation and sign off on its quality. Level Three in this track is thus achieved by the mutual agreement of multiple elements of the Church internal. 

Level Three, Track Two (Trained Translation Checker + One Church Network)
The second track is completed when the content has been thoroughly checked by an accountable Bible translation entity in the unfoldingWord network that has training and experience in checking translated biblical content, as well as by representatives of a Church network recognized by the language community. Those checking the translation for the Church network must be first-language speakers of the language and whoever signs off on the check must be in a leadership role in the Church network (as described in the first track). Level Three in this track is thus achieved by the mutual agreement of the Church internal and the Church global, as represented by the accountable Bible translation entity. 
In either track, the checking entities must have a track record that does not contradict their assertion that they adhere to the Statement of Faith and Translation Guidelines. 
To proceed with Level Three checking, Level Three checkers will click on the link below and answer the questions found on that page: 
Go to the Level Three checking questions. 



Next we recommend you learn about: [[en:ta:vol1:checking:level3_questions|Level 3 Checking Questions]]

