\c 2
\p
\v 1 My little children, these things write I to you that you may not sin. And if any man sin, we have an Advocate with the
Father, Jesus Christ the righteous:
\v 2 and he is the propitiation for our sins; and not for ours only, but also for the whole world.
\v 3 And hereby we know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
\v 4 He that saith, I know him, and keeps not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him;
\v 5 but whoso keeps his word, in him verily has the love of God been perfected. Hereby we know that we are in him:
\v 6 he that says he remains in him ought himself also to walk even as he walked.
\p
\v 7 Beloved, no new commandment write I to you, but an old commandment which you had from the beginning: the old commandment
is the word which you heard.
\v 8 Again, a new commandment write I to you, which thing is true in him and in you; because the darkness is passing away,
and the true light already shineth.
\v 9 He that says he is in the light and hates his brother, is in the darkness even until now.
\v 10 He that loves his brother remains in the light, and there is no occasion of stumbling in him.
\v 11 But he that hates his brother is in the darkness, and walks in the darkness, and knows not whither he goeth, because
the darkness has blinded his eyes.
\p
\v 12 I write to you, my little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name’s sake.
\v 13 I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have
overcome the evil one. I have written to you, little children, because you know the Father.
\v 14 I have written to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men,
because you are strong, and the word of God remains in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
\v 15 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in
him.
\v 16 For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the vainglory of life, is not of the
Father, but is of the world.
\v 17 And the world passes away, and the lust thereof: but he that does the will of God remains for ever.
\b
\p
\v 18 Little children, it is the last hour: and as you heard that antichrist cometh, even now have there arisen many
antichrists; whereby we know that it is the last hour.
\v 19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us: but
they went out, that they might be made manifest that they all are not of us.
\v 20 And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you know all things.
\v 21 I have not written to you because you know not the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth.
\v 22 Who is the liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist,
even he that denieth the Father and the Son.
\v 23 Whosoever denieth the Son, the same has not the Father: he that confesses the Son has the Father also.
\v 24 As for you, let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. If that which you heard from the beginning abide in
you, you also shall abide in the Son, and in the Father.
\v 25 And this is the promise which he promised us, even the life eternal.
\v 26 These things have I written to you concerning them that would lead you astray.
\v 27 And as for you, the anointing which you received of him remains in you, and you need not that any one teach you; but as his
anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true, and is no lie, and even as it taught you, you abide in him.
\v 28 And now, my little children, abide in him; that, if he shall be manifested, we may have boldness, and not be
ashamed before him at his coming.
\v 29 If you know that he is righteous, you know that every one also that does righteousness is begotten of him.