\c 3
\p
\v 1 Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God; and
such we are. For this cause the world knows us not, because it knew him not.
\v 2 Beloved, now are we children of God, and it is not yet made manifest what we shall be. We know that, if he shall be
manifested, we shall be like him; for we shall see him even as he is.
\v 3 And every one that has this hope set on him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.
\v 4 Every one that does sin does also lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness.
\v 5 And you know that he was manifested to take away sins; and in him is no sin.
\v 6 Whosoever remains in him sins not: whoever sins has not seen him, neither knows him.
\v 7 My little children, let no man lead you astray: he that does righteousness is righteous, even as he is
righteous:
\v 8 he that does sin is of the devil; for the devil sins from the beginning. To this end was the Son of God manifested,
that he might destroy the works of the devil.
\v 9 Whosoever is begotten of God does no sin, because his seed remains in him: and he cannot sin, because he is begotten of
God.
\v 10 In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whoever does not righteousness is not of God,
neither he that loves not his brother.
\v 11 For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another:
\v 12 not as Cain was of the evil one, and killed his brother. And wherefore killed he him? Because his works were evil, and his
brother’s righteous.
\p
\v 13 Marvel not, brethren, if the world hates you.
\v 14 We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren. He that loves not remains in death.
\v 15 Whosoever hates his brother is a murderer: and you know that no murderer has eternal life living in him.
\v 16 Hereby know we love, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
\v 17 But whoso has the world’s goods, and sees his brother in need, and shutteth up his compassion from him, how does
the love of God abide in him?
\v 18 My little children, let us not love in word, neither with the tongue; but in deed and truth.
\v 19 Hereby shall we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our heart before him:
\v 20 because if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knows all things.
\v 21 Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have boldness toward God;
\v 22 and whatever we ask we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his
sight.
\v 23 And this is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as he
gave us commandment.
\v 24 And he that keeps his commandments remains in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he remains in us, by the
Spirit which he gave us.