\c 2
\s James 2:1-11
\sr Stop honoring some people more than others, because by doing that, you are disobeying God's law that we should love one another.
\p
\v 1 My fellow believers, because you trust our Lord Jesus Christ, the one who is glorious, stop honoring some people more than others.
\v 2 For example, suppose that a person who wears gold rings and fine clothes enters your meeting place. Then suppose that a poor person who wears shabby clothes also comes in.
\v 3 And suppose that you show special attention to!"
\v 4 Then you have obviously .
\v 5 Listen to me, my fellow believers whom I love. God has chosen  forever. That is what he has promised to those who love him.
\v 6 But you dishonor the poor people. Think about it! It is the rich people, not the poor people, who are causing you to suffer!
\v 7 And they are the ones who speak evil against Jesus Christ, the one who is worthy of praise, to whom you belong!
\v 8 God has commanded you in the Scriptures that each of you must love other people like you love yourself. That commandment was also given by Jesus our King . If you are loving others, you are doing what is right.
\v 9 But if you honor some people more than others, you are doing wrong because you disobey his laws.
\p
\v 10 Do not forget that those who disobey only one of God's laws, even if they obey all his other laws, God considers them to be as guilty as anyone who has disobeyed all of God'slaws.
\v 11 For example, God said, "Do not commit adultery," but he also said, "Do not murder anyone." So if you have become a person who disobeys God's laws.
\s James 2:12-13
\sr Continually act mercifully toward others, because God will not act mercifully to those who do not act mercifully toward others.
\p
\v 12 Continually speak and act toward others as people should who will be judged  for our sins.
\v 13 Speak and act like that, because when God judges us, he will not act mercifully toward those who do not act mercifully toward others. But when we are merciful to others, we can rejoice, because our being merciful shows that we are acting like people whom God has mercifully saved from being judged .
\s James 2:14-17
\sr Anyone who says that he trusts in Jesus Christ but does not act compassionately toward others is not truly trusting in Jesus.
\p
\v 14 My fellow believers, there are some people who say, "I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ," but they do not do good deeds to other people. Their saying that will certainly not do them any good!
\v 15 To illustrate, suppose that fellow believers, either men or women, are continually lacking clothing or lacking food for each day.
\v 16 And suppose that one of you says to them, "May God bless you and supply the clothing and food that you need!" but you
\v 17 Similarly, those who do not do good deeds to help others, what they have said about their believing in Christ is as useless  as a dead person is useless! They do not really believe in Christ.
\s James 2:18-26
\sr But someone may claim that some people are saved because they trust in God and other people are saved because they do good to others. In answer to that, the inadequacy of faith without good deeds is demonstrated by the example of demons. From the examples of Abraham and Rahab we can see that only by obeying God and doing good to others can people prove that they truly trust in God.
\p
\v 18 But someone may say to me, "God saves some people only because they trust in him, and he saves others because they do good deeds to people." I would answer that person, "You cannot prove to me that people truly trust in God if they do not do good deeds to others! But by doing good deeds to others I will prove to you that I truly trust in God!
\v 19 Think about it! You believe that there is only one God, and you are right to believe that. But the demons also believe that, but they tremble because they know that God is going to punish them.
\v 20 Also, you foolish person, I will  that if someone says, 'I trust in God,' but he does not do good deeds, what that person says will not benefit him.
\v 21 It was certainlybecause of what our revered ancestor Abraham did, when he prepared to sacrifice his son Isaac, that he was considered by God 
\v 22 You can realize that he was able to trust in God more completely because of having done what God told him to do.
\v 23 And so it happened as it is written in the Scriptures: 'Because Abraham truly trusted in God, he was considered by God to be  righteous.' And God also said about Abraham, "He is my friend."
\v 24 From the example of Abraham, you can realize that it is because people do good deeds that God considers them to be righteous, and not only because they trust in him.
\v 25 Similarly, it was certainly  and she helped them to escape by sending them home on a different roadfrom the one that they came on.
\p
\v 26 Remember that when our spirits permanently leave our bodies, our bodies are dead and useless. Similarly , if someone says, "I trust in God," but does not do things to help others, what that person says about trusting in God is useless."
