\c 5
\s James 5:1-6
\sr The rich people who oppress you should weep because they will suffer much. God will punish them because they have unjustly caused others to suffer.
\p
\v 1 Now I have something to say to the rich people who do not believe in Christ and who oppress you!
\v 2 Your wealth of various kinds is worthless , as though termites had ruined them.
\v 3 Your gold and silver are worthless .
\v 4 Think about what you have done. You have not paid wages to the workmen who have harvested your fields for you, with the result that  those reapers are crying out to God for him to help them. And God, the all-powerful Lord, has heard their loud cries.
\v 5 You have lived luxuriously, just to have pleasure here on earth. Just like cattle fatten themselves, not realizing that they will be slaughtered , not realizing that God will severely punish you.
\v 6 You have arranged for others.
\s James 5:7-11
\sr So wait patiently for the Lord Jesus Christ to return and to judge all people fairly. Do not complain against each other, lest Jesus judge you when he returns. From the examples of the prophets and Job, we know that God blesses and rewards those who patiently endure suffering.
\p
\v 7 So, my fellow believers, although rich people cause you to suffer, be patient until the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. Remember that when farmers plant a field, they wait for their valuable crops to grow. They must wait patiently for the rain that comes at the planting season and for more rain that comes just before the harvest season. They wait for the crops to grow and mature before they can harvest them.
\v 8 Similarly, you also should wait patiently and trust the Lord Jesus firmly, because he is coming back soon and will judge all people fairly.
\v 9 My fellow believers, do not complain against each other, in order that you will not be condemned and punished by the Lord Jesus . It is he who will judge us, and he is ready to appear.
\v 10 My fellow believers, as an example of how to be patient, consider. Although people caused them to suffer much, they endured it patiently.
\v 11 And we know that God approves of. And from that we know that the Lord is very compassionate and kind.
\s James 5:12
\sr Do not say, "If I am lying, may God punish me." Instead, always tell the truth, lest God condemn you.
\p
\v 12 Also, my fellow believers, I want to say something important about how you talk. If you say that you will do something, do not say, "If I do not do it, may God in heaven  punish me." Do not say anything like that. Instead, if you say 'Yes,' then do what you said that you would do. If you say 'No,' then do not do it. Otherwise, God will condemn you.
\s James 5:13-18
\sr Whatever your circumstances are, pray, trusting in God, and he will certainly help you, both physically and spiritually. So confess your sins to each other and pray for each other, because God answers prayer.
\p
\v 13 Whoever among you is experiencing trouble  should sing songs of praise to God.
\v 14 Whoever among you is sick , pray.
\v 15 And if they truly trust in the Lord when they pray .
\v 16 So, because the Lord is able to heal the sick and to forgive sins, tell each other the sinful things that you have done, and pray for each other in order that you may be healed  physically and spiritually. If righteous people pray and ask fervently for God to do something, God will act powerfully and will certainly do it.
\v 17 Although the prophet Elijah was an ordinary person like us, he earnestly prayed that it would not rain. As a result, it did not rain for three and a half years.
\v 18 Then he prayed again, asking God to send rain, and as a result God  sent rain, and plants grew and produced crops again.
\s James 5:19-20
\sr If anyone turns away from God's true message, you believers should urge him to once again obey God so that God will forgive his many sins.
\p
\v 19 My fellow believers, if anyone of you stops obeying the true message from God, someone from among you should persuade that person to once again do what God has told us to do. If he stops doing what is wrong,
\v 20 the one who persuaded him should realize that because he has enabled the person who was sinning to stop doing what is wrong, God will save that person from spiritual death, and will forgive his many sins.
