\c 2
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass after this, that David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And
Jehovah said to him, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go up? And he said, To Hebron.
\v 2 So David went up thither, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
\v 3 And his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household: and they lived in the cities of Hebron.
\v 4 And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah.
\p And they told David, saying, The men of Jabesh-gilead were they that buried Saul.
\v 5 And David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and said to them, Blessed be you of Jehovah, that you have showed
this kindness to your lord, even to Saul, and have buried him.
\v 6 And now Jehovah show lovingkindness and truth to you: and I also will requite you this kindness, because you have done
this thing.
\v 7 Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be you valiant; for Saul your lord is dead, and also the house of Judah have
anointed me king over them.
\p
\v 8 Now Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul’s host, had taken Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim;
\v 9 and he made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over
all Israel.
\v 10 Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house
of Judah followed David.
\v 11 And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.
\p
\v 12 And Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon.
\v 13 And Joab the son of Zeruiah, and the servants of David, went out, and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down,
the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.
\v 14 And Abner said to Joab, Let the young men, I pray thee, arise and play before us. And Joab said, Let them arise.
\v 15 Then they arose and went over by number: twelve for Benjamin, and for Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the
servants of David.
\v 16 And they caught every one his fellow by the head, and thrust
his sword in his fellow’s side; so they fell down together: wherefore that place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is in
Gibeon.
\v 17 And the battle was very sore that day; and Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel, before the servants of David.
\p
\v 18 And the three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe.
\v 19 And Asahel pursued after Abner; and in going he turned not to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner.
\v 20 Then Abner looked behind him, and said, Is it thou, Asahel? And he answered, It is I.
\v 21 And Abner said to him, Turn you aside to your right hand or to your left, and lay you hold on one of the young men, and
take you his armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from following him.
\v 22 And Abner said again to Asahel, Turn you aside from following me: wherefore should I strike you to the ground? how then
should I hold up my face to Joab your brother?
\v 23 Howbeit he refused to turn aside: wherefore Abner with the hinder end of the spear struck him in the body, so that the
spear came out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same place: and it came to pass, that as many as came to the
place where Asahel fell down and died stood still.
\p
\v 24 But Joab and Abishai pursued after Abner: and the sun went down when they were come to the hill of Ammah, that lies
before Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon.
\v 25 And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner, and became one band, and stood on the top of a
hill.
\v 26 Then Abner called to Joab, and said, Shall the sword devour for ever? know you not that it will be bitterness in the
latter end? how long shall it be then, ere you command the people return from following their brethren?
\v 27 And Joab said, As God liveth, if you had not spoken, surely then in the morning the people had gone away, nor followed
every one his brother.
\v 28 So Joab blew the trumpet; and all the people stood still, and pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.
\v 29 And Abner and his men went all that night through the Arabah; and they passed over the Jordan, and went through all
Bithron, and came to Mahanaim.
\p
\v 30 And Joab returned from following Abner: and when he had gathered all the people together, there lacked of David’s
servants nineteen men and Asahel.
\v 31 But the servants of David had struck of Benjamin, and of Abner’s men,
so that three hundred and threescore men died.
\v 32 And they took up Asahel, and buried him in the sepulchre of his father, which was in Beth-lehem. And Joab and his men
went all night, and the day brake upon them at Hebron.