\c 7
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when the king lived in his house, and Jehovah had given him rest from all his enemies round about,
\v 2 that the king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God lives within
curtains.
\v 3 And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart; for Jehovah is with thee.
\v 4 And it came to pass the same night, that the word of Jehovah came to Nathan, saying,
\v 5 Go and tell my servant David, Thus says Jehovah, Shall you build me a house for me to dwell in?
\v 6 for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but
have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle.
\v 7 In all places wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel, spoke I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom
I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar?
\v 8 Now therefore thus shall you say to my servant David, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I took you from the sheepcote, from
following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people, over Israel;
\v 9 and I have been with you wherever you wentest, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make
you a great name, like to the name of the great ones that are in the earth.
\v 10 And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be
moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first,
\v 11 and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will cause you to rest from all
your enemies. Moreover Jehovah tells you that Jehovah will make you a house.
\v 12 When your days are fulfilled, and you shall sleep with your fathers, I will set up your seed after thee, that shall proceed
out of your bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.
\v 13 He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever.
\v 14 I will be his father, and he shall be my son: if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the
stripes of the children of men;
\v 15 but my lovingkindness shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee.
\v 16 And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure for ever before thee: your throne shall be established for ever.
\v 17 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak to David.
\p
\v 18 Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Lord Jehovah, and what is my house, that
you have brought me thus far?
\v 19 And this was yet a small thing in your eyes, O Lord Jehovah; but you have spoken also of your servant’s house for a
great while to come; and this too after the manner of men, O Lord Jehovah!
\v 20 And what can David say more to thee? for you know your servant, O Lord Jehovah.
\v 21 For your word’s sake, and according to your own heart, have you wrought all this greatness, to make your servant know it.
\v 22 Wherefore you are great, O Jehovah God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to
all that we have heard with our ears.
\v 23 And what one nation in the earth is like your people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people,
and to make him a name, and to do great things for you, and terrible things for your land, before your people, whom you
redeemest to you out of Egypt, from the nations and their gods?
\v 24 And you did establish to yourself your people Israel to be a people to you for ever; and you, Jehovah, became
their God.
\v 25 And now, O Jehovah God, the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, confirm you it
for ever, and do as you have spoken.
\v 26 And let your name be magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is God over Israel; and the house of your servant David
shall be established before thee.
\v 27 For thou, O Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, have revealed to your servant, saying, I will build you a house:
therefore has your servant found in his heart to pray this prayer to thee.
\v 28 And now, O Lord Jehovah, you are God, and your words are truth, and you have promised this good thing to your servant:
\v 29 now therefore let it please you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue for ever before you; for thou,
O Lord Jehovah, have spoken it: and with your blessing let the house of your servant be blessed for ever.