\c 8
\p
\v 1 And after this it came to pass, that David struck the Philistines, and subdued them: and David took the bridle of the
mother city out of the hand of the Philistines.
\p
\v 2 And he struck Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to
put to death, and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.
\p
\v 3 David struck also Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River.
\v 4 And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David hocked all the
chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots.
\v 5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck of the Syrians two and twenty
thousand men.
\v 6 Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah
gave victory to David wherever he went.
\v 7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
\v 8 And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass.
\p
\v 9 And when Toi king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the host of Hadadezer,
\v 10 then Toi sent Joram his son to king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and
struck him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And Joram brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and
vessels of brass:
\v 11 These also did king David dedicate to Jehovah, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he
subdued;
\v 12 of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of
Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
\p
\v 13 And David got him a name when he returned from striking the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men.
\v 14 And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And
Jehovah gave victory to David wherever he went.
\p
\v 15 And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness to all his people.
\v 16 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
\v 17 and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was scribe;
\v 18 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief
ministers.