\c 9
\p
\v 1 And David said, Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for Jonathan’s sake?
\v 2 And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David; and the king said to
him, Are you Ziba? And he said, Your servant is he.
\v 3 And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul, that I may show the kindness of God to him? And Ziba said
to the king, Jonathan has yet a son, who is lame of his feet.
\v 4 And the king said to him, Where is he? And Ziba said to the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir the son of
Ammiel, in Lo-debar.
\v 5 Then king David sent, and fetched him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo-debar.
\v 6 And Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, and fell on his face, and did obeisance. And
David said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold, your servant!
\v 7 And David said to him, Fear not; for I will surely show you kindness for Jonathan your father’s sake, and will restore
you all the land of Saul your father; and you shall eat bread at my table continually.
\v 8 And he did obeisance, and said, What is your servant, that you should look upon such a dead dog as I am?
\p
\v 9 Then the king called to Ziba, Saul’s servant, and said to him, All that pertained to Saul and to all his house have I
given to your master’s son.
\v 10 And you shall till the land for him, you, and your sons, and your servants; and you shall bring in
the fruits, that your master’s son may have bread to eat: but Mephibosheth your master’s son shall eat bread always at
my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.
\v 11 Then said Ziba to the king, According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so shall your servant do. As
for Mephibosheth, said the king, he shall eat at my table, as one of the king’s sons.
\v 12 And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Mica. And all that lived in the house of Ziba were servants to
Mephibosheth.
\v 13 So Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem; for he did eat continually at the king’s table. And he was lame in both his feet.