\c 11
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, at the return of the year, at the time when kings go out
to battle, that David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon,
and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem.
\p
\v 2 And it came to pass at eventide, that David arose from off his bed, and walked upon the roof of the king’s house: and from
the roof he saw a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful to look upon.
\v 3 And David send and inquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bath-sheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of
Uriah the Hittite?
\v 4 And David sent messengers, and took her; and she came in to him, and he lay with her (for she was purified from her
uncleanness); and she returned to her house.
\v 5 And the woman conceived; and she sent and told David, and said, I am with child.
\p
\v 6 And David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David.
\v 7 And when Uriah was come to him, David asked of him how Joab did, and how the people fared, and how the war prospered.
\v 8 And David said to Uriah, Go down to your house, and wash your feet. And Uriah departed out of the king’s house, and there
followed him a mess of food from the king.
\v 9 But Uriah slept at the door of the king’s house with all the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house.
\v 10 And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down to his house, David said to Uriah, Are you not come from a
journey? wherefore did you not go down to your house?
\v 11 And Uriah said to David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, abide in booths; and my lord Joab, and the servants of my
lord, are encamped in the open field; shall I then go into my house, to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? as you
livest, and as your soul liveth, I will not do this thing.
\v 12 And David said to Uriah, Tarry here today also, and to-morrow I will let you depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that
day, and the morrow.
\v 13 And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him; and he made him drunk: and at even he went out to lie on
his bed with the servants of his lord, but went not down to his house.
\p
\v 14 And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah.
\v 15 And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set you Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire you from him, that he
may be smitten, and die.
\v 16 And it came to pass, when Joab kept watch upon the city, that he assigned Uriah to the place where he knew that valiant
men were.
\v 17 And the men of the city went out, and fought with Joab: and there fell some of the people, even of the servants of David;
and Uriah the Hittite died also.
\v 18 Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war;
\v 19 and he charged the messenger, saying, When you have made an end of telling all the things concerning the war to the
king,
\v 20 it shall be that, if the king’s wrath arise, and he say to thee, Wherefore went you so near to the city to fight? knew
you not that they would shoot from the wall?
\v 21 who struck Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? did not a woman cast an upper millstone upon him from the wall, so that he
died at Thebez? why went you so near the wall? then shall you say, Your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.
\p
\v 22 So the messenger went, and came and showed David all that Joab had sent him for.
\v 23 And the messenger said to David, The men prevailed against us, and came out to us into the field, and we were upon
them even to the entrance of the gate.
\v 24 And the shooters shot at your servants from off the wall; and some of the king’s servants are dead, and your servant Uriah
the Hittite is dead also.
\v 25 Then David said to the messenger, Thus shall you say to Joab, Let not this thing displease thee, for the sword
devours one as well as another; make your battle more strong against the city, and overthrow it: and encourage you him.
\p
\v 26 And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she made lamentation for her husband.
\v 27 And when the mourning was past, David sent and took her home to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son.
But the thing that David had done displeased Jehovah.