\c 12
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah sent Nathan to David. And he came to him, and said to him, There were two men in one city; the one rich,
and the other poor.
\v 2 The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds;
\v 3 but the poor man had nothing, save one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and nourished up: and it grew up together with
him, and with his children; it did eat of his own morsel, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was to him as a
daughter.
\v 4 And there came a traveller to the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd, to dress for the
wayfaring man that was come to him, but took the poor man’s lamb, and dressed it for the man that was come to him.
\v 5 And David’s anger was greatly kindled against the man; and he said to Nathan, As Jehovah liveth, the man that has done
this is worthy to die:
\v 6 and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity.
\p
\v 7 And Nathan said to David, You are the man. Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, I anointed you king over Israel, and I
delivered you out of the hand of Saul;
\v 8 and I gave you your master’s house, and your master’s wives into your bosom, and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah;
and if that had been too little, I would have added to you such and such things.
\v 9 Wherefore have you despised the word of Jehovah, to do that which is evil in his sight? you have struck Uriah the
Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon.
\v 10 Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me, and have taken the wife of
Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.
\v 11 Thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house; and I will take your wives before
your eyes, and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of this sun.
\v 12 For you did it secretly: but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before the sun.
\v 13 And David said to Nathan, I have sinned against Jehovah. And Nathan said to David, Jehovah also has put away your
sin; you shall not die.
\v 14 Howbeit, because by this deed you have given great occasion to the enemies of Jehovah to blaspheme, the child also that
is born to you shall surely die.
\v 15 And Nathan departed to his house.
\p And Jehovah struck the child that Uriah’s wife bare to David, and it was very sick.
\v 16 David therefore implored God for the child; and David fasted, and went in, and lay all night upon the earth.
\v 17 And the elders of his house arose, and stood beside him, to raise him up from the earth: but he would not,
neither did he eat bread with them.
\v 18 And it came to pass on the seventh day, that the child died. And the servants of David feared to tell him that the child
was dead; for they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he listened not to our voice: how
will he then vex himself, if we tell him that the child is dead!
\v 19 But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David perceived that the child was dead; and David said
to his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, He is dead.
\v 20 Then David arose from the earth, and washed, and anointed himself, and changed his apparel; and he came into the house of
Jehovah, and worshipped: then he came to his own house; and when he required, they set bread before him, and he did eat.
\v 21 Then said his servants to him, What thing is this that you have done? you did fast and weep for the child, while it
was alive; but when the child was dead, you did rise and eat bread.
\v 22 And he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept: for I said, Who knows whether Jehovah will not be
gracious to me, that the child may live?
\v 23 But now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me.
\p
\v 24 And David comforted Bath-sheba his wife, and went in to her, and lay with her: and she bare a son, and he called his
name Solomon. And Jehovah loved him;
\v 25 and he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet; and he called his name Jedidiah, for Jehovah’s sake.
\p
\v 26 Now Joab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and took the royal city.
\v 27 And Joab sent messengers to David, and said, I have fought against Rabbah; yea, I have taken the city of waters.
\v 28 Now therefore gather the rest of the people together, and encamp against the city, and take it; lest I take the city, and
it be called after my name.
\v 29 And David gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah, and fought against it, and took it.
\v 30 And he took the crown of their king from off his head; and the weight thereof was a talent of gold, and
in it were precious stones; and it was set on David’s head. And he brought forth the spoil of the city, exceeding
much.
\v 31 And he brought forth the people that were therein, and put them under saws, and under harrows of iron, and under axes of
iron, and made them pass through the brickkiln: and thus did he to all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all
the people returned to Jerusalem.