\c 13
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass after this, that Absalom the son of David had a fair sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son
of David loved her.
\v 2 And Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick because of his sister Tamar; for she was a virgin; and it seemed hard to Amnon to
do anything to her.
\v 3 But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother: and Jonadab was a very subtle man.
\v 4 And he said to him, Why, O son of the king, are you thus lean from day to day? will you not tell me? And Amnon said
to him, I love Tamar, my brother Absalom’s sister.
\v 5 And Jonadab said to him, Lay you down on your bed, and feign yourself sick: and when your father comes to see you, say
to him, Let my sister Tamar come, I pray thee, and give me bread to eat, and dress the food in my sight, that I may see it,
and eat it from her hand.
\v 6 So Amnon lay down, and feigned himself sick: and when the king was come to see him, Amnon said to the king, Let my
sister Tamar come, I pray thee, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand.
\p
\v 7 Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to your brother Amnon’s house, and dress him food.
\v 8 So Tamar went to her brother Amnon’s house; and he was laid down. And she took dough, and kneaded it, and made cakes in
his sight, and did bake the cakes.
\v 9 And she took the pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, Have out all men from me. And
they went out every man from him.
\v 10 And Amnon said to Tamar, Bring the food into the chamber, that I may eat from your hand. And Tamar took the cakes which
she had made, and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.
\v 11 And when she had brought them near to him to eat, he took hold of her, and said to her, Come, lie with me, my sister.
\v 12 And she answered him, Nay, my brother, do not force me; for no such thing ought to be done in Israel: do not you this
folly.
\v 13 And I, whither shall I carry my shame? and as for thee, you will be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray
thee, speak to the king; for he will not withhold me from thee.
\v 14 Howbeit he would not listen to her voice; but being stronger than she, he forced her, and lay with her.
\p
\v 15 Then Amnon hated her with exceeding great hatred; for the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love
wherewith he had loved her. And Amnon said to her, Arise, be gone.
\v 16 And she said to him, Not so, because this great wrong in putting me forth is
worse than the other that you did to me. But he would not listen to her.
\v 17 Then he called his servant that ministered to him, and said, Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after
her.
\v 18 And she had a garment of various colors upon her; for with such robes were the king’s daughters that were virgins
apparelled. Then his servant brought her out, and bolted the door after her.
\v 19 And Tamar put ashes on her head, and tore her garment of various colors that was on her; and she laid her hand on her
head, and went her way, crying aloud as she went.
\p
\v 20 And Absalom her brother said to her, Hath Amnon your brother been with thee? but now hold your peace, my sister: he is
your brother; take not this thing to heart. So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom’s house.
\v 21 But when king David heard of all these things, he was very wroth.
\v 22 And Absalom spoke to Amnon neither good nor bad; for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar.
\p
\v 23 And it came to pass after two full years, that Absalom had sheep-shearers in Baal-hazor, which is beside Ephraim: and
Absalom invited all the king’s sons.
\v 24 And Absalom came to the king, and said, Behold now, your servant has sheep-shearers; let the king, I pray thee, and his
servants go with your servant.
\v 25 And the king said to Absalom, Nay, my son, let us not all go, lest we be burdensome to thee. And he pressed him:
howbeit he would not go, but blessed him.
\v 26 Then said Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go with us. And the king said to him, Why should he go
with thee?
\v 27 But Absalom pressed him, and he let Amnon and all the king’s sons go with him.
\v 28 And Absalom commanded his servants, saying, Mark you now, when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine; and when I say to you,
Strike Amnon, then kill him; fear not; have not I commanded you? be courageous, and be valiant.
\v 29 And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons arose, and every man got
him up upon his mule, and fled.
\p
\v 30 And it came to pass, while they were in the way, that the tidings came to David, saying, Absalom has slain all the
king’s sons, and there is not one of them left.
\v 31 Then the king arose, and tore his garments, and lay on the earth; and all his servants stood by with their clothes tore.
\v 32 And Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother, answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that they have killed all
the young men the king’s sons; for Amnon only is dead: for by the appointment of Absalom this has been determined from the day
that he forced his sister Tamar.
\v 33 Now therefore let not my lord the king take the thing to his heart, to think that all the king’s sons are dead; for Amnon
only is dead.
\p
\v 34 But Absalom fled. And the young man that kept the watch lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came much
people by the way of the hill-side behind him.
\v 35 And Jonadab said to the king, Behold, the king’s sons are come: as your servant said, so it is.
\v 36 And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of speaking, that, behold, the king’s sons came, and lifted up their
voice, and wept: and the king also and all his servants wept very sore.
\p
\v 37 But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, king of Geshur. And
David mourned for his son every day.
\v 38 So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three years.
\v 39 And the soul of king David longed to go forth to Absalom: for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he
was dead.