\c 14
\p
\v 1 Now Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king’s heart was toward Absalom.
\v 2 And Joab sent to Tekoa, and fetched thence a wise woman, and said to her, I pray thee, feign yourself to be a mourner,
and put on mourning apparel, I pray thee, and anoint not yourself with oil, but be as a woman that has a long time mourned for
the dead:
\v 3 and go in to the king, and speak on this manner to him. So Joab put the words in her mouth.
\p
\v 4 And when the woman of Tekoa spoke to the king, she fell on her face to the ground, and did obeisance, and said, Help, O
king.
\v 5 And the king said to her, What aileth thee? And she answered, Of a truth I am a widow, and my husband is dead.
\v 6 And your handmaid had two sons, and they two strove together in the field, and there was none to part them, but the one
struck the other, and killed him.
\v 7 And, behold, the whole family is risen against your handmaid, and they say, Deliver him that struck his brother, that we may
kill him for the life of his brother whom he slew, and so destroy the heir also. Thus will they quench my coal which is left,
and will leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the face of the earth.
\p
\v 8 And the king said to the woman, Go to your house, and I will give charge concerning thee.
\v 9 And the woman of Tekoa said to the king, My lord, O king, the iniquity be on me, and on my father’s house; and the king
and his throne be guiltless.
\v 10 And the king said, Whosoever says anything to you, bring him to me, and he shall not touch you any more.
\v 11 Then said she, I pray thee, let the king remember Jehovah your God, that the avenger of blood destroy not any more, lest
they destroy my son. And he said, As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of your son fall to the earth.
\p
\v 12 Then the woman said, Let your handmaid, I pray thee, speak a word to my lord the king. And he said, Say on.
\v 13 And the woman said, Wherefore then have you devised such a thing against the people of God? for in speaking this word
the king is as one that is guilty, in that the king does not fetch home again his banished one.
\v 14 For we must needs die, and are as water spilt on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again; neither does God take
away life, but devises means, that he that is banished be not an outcast from him.
\v 15 Now therefore seeing that I am come to speak this word to my lord the king, it is because the people have made me
afraid: and your handmaid said, I will now speak to the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his servant.
\v 16 For the king will hear, to deliver his servant out of the hand of the man that would destroy me and my son together out
of the inheritance of God.
\v 17 Then your handmaid said, Let, I pray thee, the word of my lord the king be comfortable; for as an angel of God, so is my
lord the king to discern good and bad: and Jehovah your God be with thee.
\p
\v 18 Then the king answered and said to the woman, Hide not from me, I pray thee, anything that I shall ask thee. And the woman
said, Let my lord the king now speak.
\v 19 And the king said, Is the hand of Joab with you in all this? And the woman answered and said, As your soul liveth, my
lord the king, none can turn to the right hand or to the left from anything that my lord the king has spoken; for your servant
Joab, he bade me, and he put all these words in the mouth of your handmaid;
\v 20 to change the face of the matter has your servant Joab done this thing: and my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of
an angel of God, to know all things that are in the earth.
\p
\v 21 And the king said to Joab, Behold now, I have done this thing: go therefore, bring the young man Absalom back.
\v 22 And Joab fell to the ground on his face, and did obeisance, and blessed the king; and Joab said, To-day your servant
knows that I have found favor in your sight, my lord, O king, in that the king has performed the request of his servant.
\v 23 So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.
\v 24 And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, but let him not see my face. So Absalom turned to his own house, and
saw not the king’s face.
\p
\v 25 Now in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty: from the sole of his foot even to the
crown of his head there was no blemish in him.
\v 26 And when he cut the hair of his head (now it was at every year’s end that he cut it; because it was heavy on him,
therefore he cut it); he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels, after the king’s weight.
\v 27 And to Absalom there were born three sons, and one daughter, whose name was Tamar: she was a woman of a fair
countenance.
\p
\v 28 And Absalom lived two full years in Jerusalem; and he saw not the king’s face.
\v 29 Then Absalom sent for Joab, to send him to the king; but he would not come to him: and he sent again a second time, but
he would not come.
\v 30 Therefore he said to his servants, See, Joab’s field is near mine, and he has barley there; go and set it on fire. And
Absalom’s servants set the field on fire.
\v 31 Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom to his house, and said to him, Wherefore have your servants set my field on fire?
\v 32 And Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent to you, saying, Come hither, that I may send you to the king, to say,
Wherefore am I come from Geshur? it were better for me to be there still. Now therefore let me see the king’s face; and if
there be iniquity in me, let him kill me.
\v 33 So Joab came to the king, and told him; and when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king, and bowed himself on his
face to the ground before the king: and the king kissed Absalom.