\c 19
\p
\v 1 And it was told Joab, Behold, the king weeps and mourneth for Absalom.
\v 2 And the victory that day was turned into mourning to all the people; for the people heard say that day, The king
grieves for his son.
\v 3 And the people got them by stealth that day into the city, as people that are ashamed steal away when they flee in battle.
\v 4 And the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!
\v 5 And Joab came into the house to the king, and said, You have shamed this day the faces of all your servants, who this day
have saved your life, and the lives of your sons and of your daughters, and the lives of your wives, and the lives of your
concubines;
\v 6 in that you love them that hate thee, and hate them that love thee. For you have declared this day, that princes and
servants are nothing to thee: for this day I perceive, that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had
pleased you well.
\v 7 Now therefore arise, go forth, and speak comfortably to your servants; for I swear by Jehovah, if you go not forth,
there will not wait a man with you this night: and that will be worse to you than all the evil that has befallen you
from your youth until now.
\v 8 Then the king arose, and sat in the gate. And they told to all the people, saying, Behold, the king is sitting in the
gate: and all the people came before the king.
\p Now Israel had fled every man to his tent.
\v 9 And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king delivered us out of the hand of
our enemies, and he saved us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he is fled out of the land from Absalom.
\v 10 And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore why speak you not a word of bringing the king
back?
\p
\v 11 And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, Why are you the
last to bring the king back to his house? seeing the speech of all Israel is come to the king,
to bring him to his house.
\v 12 You are my brethren, you are my bone and my flesh: wherefore then are you the last to bring back the king?
\v 13 And say you to Amasa, Are you not my bone and my flesh? God do so to me, and more also, if you be not captain of the
host before me continually in the room of Joab.
\v 14 And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart
of one man; so that they sent to the king, saying, Return thou, and all your servants.
\v 15 So the king returned, and came to the Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal, to go to meet the king, to bring the king over
the Jordan.
\p
\v 16 And Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite, who was of Bahurim, hasted and came down with the men of Judah to meet king
David.
\v 17 And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and
his twenty servants with him; and they went through the Jordan in the presence of the king.
\v 18 And there went over a ferry-boat to bring over the king’s household, and to do what he thought good. And Shimei the son
of Gera fell down before the king, when he was come over the Jordan.
\v 19 And he said to the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity to me, neither do you remember that which your servant did
perversely the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to his heart.
\v 20 For your servant does know that I have sinned: therefore, behold, I am come this day the first of all the house of Joseph
to go down to meet my lord the king.
\p
\v 21 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said, Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed Jehovah’s
anointed?
\v 22 And David said, What have I to do with you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you should this day be adversaries to me? shall
there any man be put to death this day in Israel? for do not I know that I am this day king over Israel?
\v 23 And the king said to Shimei, You shall not die. And the king sware to him.
\p
\v 24 And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king; and he had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard,
nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came home in peace.
\v 25 And it came to pass, when he was come to Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said to him, Wherefore went not
you with me, Mephibosheth?
\v 26 And he answered, My lord, O king, my servant deceived me: for your servant said, I will saddle me an ass, that I may ride
thereon, and go with the king; because your servant is lame.
\v 27 And he has slandered your servant to my lord the king; but my lord the king is as an angel of God: do therefore what is
good in your eyes.
\v 28 For all my father’s house were but dead men before my lord the king; yet did you set your servant among them that did
eat at your own table. What right therefore have I yet that I should cry any more to the king?
\v 29 And the king said to him, Why speak you any more of your matters? I say, You and Ziba divide the land.
\v 30 And Mephibosheth said to the king, yea, let him take all, forasmuch as my lord the king is come in peace to his own
house.
\p
\v 31 And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim; and he went over the Jordan with the king, to conduct him over the
Jordan.
\v 32 Now Barzillai was a very aged man, even fourscore years old: and he had provided the king with sustenance while he lay at
Mahanaim; for he was a very great man.
\v 33 And the king said to Barzillai, Come you over with me, and I will sustain you with me in Jerusalem.
\v 34 And Barzillai said to the king, How many are the days of the years of my life, that I should go up with the king to
Jerusalem?
\v 35 I am this day fourscore years old: can I discern between good and bad? can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink?
can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? wherefore then should your servant be yet a burden to my lord
the king?
\v 36 Your servant would but just go over the Jordan with the king: and why should the king recompense it me with such a reward?
\v 37 Let your servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine own city, by the grave of my father and my mother.
But behold, your servant Chimham; let him go over with my lord the king; and do to him what shall seem good to thee.
\v 38 And the king answered, Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem good to thee: and
whatever you shall require of me, that will I do for thee.
\v 39 And all the people went over the Jordan, and the king went over: and the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he
returned to his own place.
\p
\v 40 So the king went over to Gilgal, and Chimham went over with him: and all the people of Judah brought the king over, and
also half the people of Israel.
\v 41 And, behold, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said to the king, Why have our brethren the men of Judah
stolen you away, and brought the king, and his household, over the Jordan, and all David’s men with him?
\v 42 And all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, Because the king is near of kin to us: wherefore then are you angry
for this matter? have we eaten at all at the king’s cost? or has he given us any gift?
\v 43 And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, and said, We have ten parts in the king, and we have also more
right in David than you: why then did you despise us, that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our
king? And the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.