\c 4
\p
\v 1 The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
\v 2 And Reaiah the son of Shobal became the father of Jahath; and Jahath became the father of Ahumai and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.
\v 3 And these were the sons of the father of Etam: Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was
Hazzelelponi;
\v 4 and Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the
father of Beth-lehem.
\v 5 And Ashhur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
\v 6 And Naarah bare him Ahuzzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
\v 7 And the sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.
\v 8 And Hakkoz became the father of Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum.
\v 9 And Jabez was more honorable than his brethren: and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bare him with
sorrow.
\v 10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that you would bless me indeed, and enlarge my border, and that your
hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from evil, that it be not to my sorrow! And God granted him that which he
requested.
\v 11 And Chelub the brother of Shuhah became the father of Mehir, who was the father of Eshton.
\v 12 And Eshton became the father of Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah.
\v 13 And the sons of Kenaz: Othniel, and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel: Hathath.
\v 14 And Meonothai became the father of Ophrah: and Seraiah became the father of Joab the father of Ge-harashim; for they were craftsmen.
\v 15 And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam; and the sons of Elah; and Kenaz.
\v 16 And the sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.
\v 17 And the sons of Ezrah: Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon; and she bare Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father
of Eshtemoa.
\v 18 And his wife the Jewess bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah.
And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took.
\v 19 And the sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the
Maacathite.
\v 20 And the sons of Shimon: Amnon, and Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi: Zoheth, and Ben-zoheth.
\v 21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the
house of them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea;
\v 22 and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had dominion in Moab, and Jashubilehem. And the records are
ancient.
\v 23 These were the potters, and the inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah: there they lived with the king for his work.
\p
\v 24 The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
\v 25 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
\v 26 And the sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
\v 27 And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brethren had not many children, neither did all their family
multiply like to the children of Judah.
\v 28 And they lived at Beer-sheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual,
\v 29 and at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
\v 30 and at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
\v 31 and at Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susim, and at Beth-biri, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities to the reign of
David.
\v 32 And their villages were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities;
\v 33 and all their villages that were round about the same cities, to Baal. These were their habitations, and they have
their genealogy.
\v 34 And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah,
\v 35 and Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
\v 36 and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,
\v 37 and Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah—
\v 38 these mentioned by name were princes in their families: and their fathers’ houses increased greatly.
\v 39 And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.
\v 40 And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for they that lived there aforetime
were of Ham.
\v 41 And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and struck their tents, and the Meunim that were
found there, and destroyed them utterly to this day, and lived in their stead; because there was pasture there for their
flocks.
\v 42 And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah,
and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
\v 43 And they struck the remnant of the Amalekites that escaped, and have lived there to this day.