\c 5
\p
\v 1 And the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel (for he was the firstborn; but, forasmuch as he defiled his father’s
couch, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel; and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the
birthright.
\v 2 For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the prince; but the birthright was Joseph’s),
\v 3 the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
\v 4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
\v 5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
\v 6 Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he was prince of the Reubenites.
\v 7 And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned: the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah,
\v 8 and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who lived in Aroer, even to Nebo and Baal-meon:
\v 9 and eastward he lived even to the entrance of the wilderness from the river Euphrates, because their cattle were
multiplied in the land of Gilead.
\v 10 And in the days of Saul, they made war with the Hagrites, who fell by their hand; and they lived in their tents
throughout all the land east of Gilead.
\p
\v 11 And the sons of Gad lived over against them, in the land of Bashan to Salecah:
\v 12 Joel the chief, and Shapham the second, and Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
\v 13 And their brethren of their fathers’ houses: Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jacan, and Zia, and Eber,
seven.
\v 14 These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of
Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz;
\v 15 Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of their fathers’ houses.
\v 16 And they lived in Gilead in Bashan, and in its towns, and in all the suburbs of Sharon, as far as their borders.
\v 17 All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.
\p
\v 18 The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword,
and to shoot with bow, and skillful in war, were forty and four thousand seven hundred and threescore, that were able to go
forth to war.
\v 19 And they made war with the Hagrites, with Jetur, and Naphish, and Nodab.
\v 20 And they were helped against them, and the Hagrites were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them; for they
cried to God in the battle, and he was entreated of them, because they put their trust in him.
\v 21 And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of
asses two thousand, and of men a hundred thousand.
\v 22 For there fell many slain, because the war was of God. And they lived in their stead until the captivity.
\p
\v 23 And the children of the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in the land: they increased from Bashan to Baal-hermon and Senir
and mount Hermon.
\v 24 And these were the heads of their fathers’ houses: even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and
Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, famous men, heads of their fathers’ houses.
\p
\v 25 And they trespassed against the God of their fathers, and played the harlot after the gods of the peoples of the land,
whom God destroyed before them.
\v 26 And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria,
and he carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, and brought them to Halah,
and Habor, and Hara, and to the river of Gozan, to this day.