\c 17
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when David lived in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in a house of
cedar, but the ark of the covenant of Jehovah lives under curtains.
\v 2 And Nathan said to David, Do all that is in your heart; for God is with thee.
\v 3 And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying,
\v 4 Go and tell David my servant, Thus says Jehovah, You shall not build me a house to dwell in:
\v 5 for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up Israel, to this day, but have gone from tent to tent,
and from one tabernacle to another.
\v 6 In all places wherein I have walked with all Israel, spoke I a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to
be shepherd of my people, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar?
\v 7 Now therefore thus shall you say to my servant David, Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I took you from the sheepcote, from
following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people Israel:
\v 8 and I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will
make you a name, like to the name of the great ones that are in the earth.
\v 9 And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved
no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the first,
\v 10 and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will subdue all your enemies.
Moreover I tell you that Jehovah will build you a house.
\v 11 And it shall come to pass, when your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, that I will set up your
seed after thee, who shall be of your sons; and I will establish his kingdom.
\v 12 He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne for ever.
\v 13 I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my lovingkindness away from him, as I took it from him
that was before thee;
\v 14 but I will settle him in my house and in my kingdom for ever; and his throne shall be established for ever.
\v 15 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak to David.
\p
\v 16 Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Jehovah God, and what is my house, that
you have brought me thus far?
\v 17 And this was a small thing in your eyes, O God; but you have spoken of your servant’s house for a great while to come,
and have regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O Jehovah God.
\v 18 What can David say yet more to you concerning the honor which is done to your servant? for you know your
servant.
\v 19 O Jehovah, for your servant’s sake, and according to your own heart, have you wrought all this greatness, to make known
all these great things.
\v 20 O Jehovah, there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our
ears.
\v 21 And what one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, to make
you a name by great and terrible things, in driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeemest out of Egypt?
\v 22 For your people Israel did you make your own people for ever; and you, Jehovah, became their God.
\v 23 And now, O Jehovah, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, be established
for ever, and do as you have spoken.
\v 24 And let your name be established and magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to
Israel: and the house of David your servant is established before thee.
\v 25 For you, O my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build him a house: therefore has your servant found
in his heart to pray before thee.
\v 26 And now, O Jehovah, you are God, and have promised this good thing to your servant:
\v 27 and now it has pleased you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue for ever before you: for thou, O
Jehovah, have blessed, and it is blessed for ever.