\c 1
\p
\v 1 The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests that were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin:
\v 2 to whom the word of Jehovah came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his
reign.
\v 3 It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, to the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the
son of Josiah, king of Judah, to the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month.
\p
\v 4 Now the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 5 Before I formed you in the belly I knew you, and before you came forth out of the womb I sanctified you; I have
appointed you a prophet to the nations.
\v 6 Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! behold, I know not how to speak; for I am a child.
\v 7 But Jehovah said to me, Say not, I am a child; for to whoever I shall send you you shall go, and whatever I shall
command you you shall speak.
\v 8 Be not afraid because of them; for I am with you to deliver you, says Jehovah.
\v 9 Then Jehovah put forth his hand, and touched my mouth; and Jehovah said to me, Behold, I have put my words in your mouth:
\v 10 see, I have this day set you over the nations and over the kingdoms, to pluck up and to break down and to destroy and to
overthrow, to build and to plant.
\p
\v 11 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying, Jeremiah, what see thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond-tree.
\v 12 Then said Jehovah to me, You have well seen: for I watch over my word to perform it.
\p
\v 13 And the word of Jehovah came to me the second time, saying, What see thou? And I said, I see a boiling caldron; and
the face thereof is from the north.
\v 14 Then Jehovah said to me, Out of the north evil shall break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land.
\v 15 For, lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north, says Jehovah; and they shall come, and they shall
set every one his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all the walls thereof round about, and against
all the cities of Judah.
\v 16 And I will utter my judgments against them touching all their wickedness, in that they have forsaken me, and have burned
incense to other gods, and worshipped the works of their own hands.
\v 17 You therefore gird up your loins, and arise, and speak to them all that I command thee: be not dismayed at them, lest I
dismay you before them.
\v 18 For, behold, I have made you this day a fortified city, and an iron pillar, and brazen walls, against the whole land,
against the kings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests thereof, and against the people of the land.
\v 19 And they shall fight against thee; but they shall not prevail against thee: for I am with thee, says Jehovah, to deliver
thee.