\c 2
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Go, and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus says Jehovah, I remember for you the kindness of your youth, the love
of your espousals; how you went after me in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown.
\v 3 Israel was holiness to Jehovah, the first fruits of his increase: all that devour him shall be held guilty;
evil shall come upon them, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 4 Hear you the word of Jehovah, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel:
\v 5 Thus says Jehovah, What unrighteousness have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far from me, and have walked
after vanity, and are become vain?
\v 6 Neither said they, Where is Jehovah that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, that led us through the wilderness,
through a land of deserts and of pits, through a land of drought and of the shadow of death, through a land that none passed
through, and where no man dwelt?
\v 7 And I brought you into a plentiful land, to eat the fruit thereof and the goodness thereof; but when you entered, you
defiled my land, and made my heritage an abomination.
\v 8 The priests said not, Where is Jehovah? and they that handle the law knew me not: the rulers also transgressed against me,
and the prophets prophesied by Baal, and walked after things that do not profit.
\p
\v 9 Wherefore I will yet contend with you, says Jehovah, and with your children’s children will I contend.
\v 10 For pass over to the isles of Kittim, and see; and send to Kedar, and consider diligently; and see if there has been
such a thing.
\v 11 Hath a nation changed its gods, which yet are no gods? but my people have changed their glory for that which
does not profit.
\v 12 Be astonished, O you heavens, at this, and be horribly afraid, be you very desolate, says Jehovah.
\v 13 For my people have committed two evils: they have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed them out
cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water.
\p
\v 14 Is Israel a servant? is he a home-born slave? why is he become a prey?
\v 15 The young lions have roared upon him, and yelled; and they have made his land waste: his cities are burned up, without
inhabitant.
\v 16 The children also of Memphis and Tahpanhes have broken the crown of your head.
\v 17 Hast you not procured this to yourself, in that you have forsaken Jehovah your God, when he led you by the way?
\v 18 And now what have you to do in the way to Egypt, to drink the waters of the Shihor? or what have you to do in the way
to Assyria, to drink the waters of the River?
\v 19 Your own wickedness shall correct thee, and your backslidings shall reprove thee: know therefore and see that it is an
evil thing and a bitter, that you have forsaken Jehovah your God, and that my fear is not in thee, says the Lord, Jehovah of
hosts.
\p
\v 20 For of old time I have broken your yoke, and burst your bonds; and you saidst, I will not serve; for upon every high hill
and under every green tree you did bow thyself, playing the harlot.
\v 21 Yet I had planted you a noble vine, wholly a right seed: how then are you turned into the degenerate branches of a
foreign vine to me?
\v 22 For yough you wash you with lye, and take you much soap, yet your iniquity is marked before me, says the Lord
Jehovah.
\v 23 How can you say, I am not defiled, I have not gone after the Baalim? see your way in the valley, know what you have
done: you are a swift dromedary traversing her ways;
\v 24 a wild ass used to the wilderness, that snuffeth up the wind in her desire; in her occasion who can turn her away? all
they that seek her will not weary themselves; in her month they shall find her.
\v 25 Withhold your foot from being unshod, and your throat from thirst. But you saidst, It is in vain; no, for I have loved
strangers, and after them will I go.
\p
\v 26 As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so is the house of Israel ashamed; they, their kings, their princes, and their
priests, and their prophets;
\v 27 who say to a stock, You are my father; and to a stone, You have brought me forth: for they have turned their back to
me, and not their face; but in the time of their trouble they will say, Arise, and save us.
\v 28 But where are your gods that you have made you? let them arise, if they can save you in the time of your trouble: for
according to the number of your cities are your gods, O Judah.
\p
\v 29 Wherefore will you contend with me? you all have transgressed against me, says Jehovah.
\v 30 In vain have I struck your children; they received no correction: your own sword has devoured your prophets, like a
destroying lion.
\v 31 O generation, see you the word of Jehovah. Have I been a wilderness to Israel? or a land of thick darkness? wherefore
say my people, We are broken loose; we will come no more to thee?
\v 32 Can a virgin forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire? yet my people have forgotten me days without number.
\v 33 How trimmest you your way to seek love! therefore even the wicked women have you taught your ways.
\v 34 Also in your skirts is found the blood of the souls of the innocent poor: you did not find them breaking in; but it is
because of all these things.
\v 35 Yet you saidst, I am innocent; surely his anger is turned away from me. Behold, I will enter into judgment with thee,
because you sayest, I have not sinned.
\v 36 Why gaddest you about so much to change your way? you shall be ashamed of Egypt also, as you was ashamed of Assyria.
\v 37 From thence also shall you go forth, with your hands upon your head: for Jehovah has rejected those in whom you
trustest, and you shall not prosper with them.