\c 3
\p
\v 1 They say, If a man put away his wife, and she go from him, and become another man’s, will he return to her again? will
not that land be greatly polluted? But you have played the harlot with many lovers; yet return again to me, says Jehovah.
\v 2 Lift up your eyes to the bare heights, and see; where have you not been lain with? By the ways have you sat for them,
as an Arabian in the wilderness; and you have polluted the land with your whoredoms and with your wickedness.
\v 3 Therefore the showers have been withholden, and there has been no latter rain; yet you had a harlot’s forehead, you
refusedst to be ashamed.
\v 4 Wilt you not from this time cry to me, My Father, you are the guide of my youth?
\v 5 Will he retain his anger for ever? will he keep it to the end? Behold, you have spoken and have done evil
things, and have had your way.
\p
\v 6 Moreover Jehovah said to me in the days of Josiah the king, Hast you seen that which backsliding Israel has done? she
is gone up upon every high mountain and under every green tree, and there has played the harlot.
\v 7 And I said after she had done all these things, She will return to me; but she returned not: and her treacherous sister
Judah saw it.
\v 8 And I saw, when, for this very cause that backsliding Israel had committed adultery, I had put her away and given her a
bill of divorcement, yet treacherous Judah her sister feared not; but she also went and played the harlot.
\v 9 And it came to pass through the lightness of her whoredom, that the land was polluted, and she committed adultery with
stones and with stocks.
\v 10 And yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah has not returned to me with her whole heart, but feignedly, says
Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 And Jehovah said to me, Backsliding Israel has showed herself more righteous than treacherous Judah.
\v 12 Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, Return, you backsliding Israel, says Jehovah; I will not look
in anger upon you; for I am merciful, says Jehovah, I will not keep
anger for ever.
\v 13 Only acknowledge your iniquity, that you have transgressed against Jehovah your God, and have scattered your ways to the
strangers under every green tree, and you have not obeyoud my voice, says Jehovah.
\v 14 Return, O backsliding children, says Jehovah; for I am a husband to you: and I will take you one of a city, and two of
a family, and I will bring you to Zion.
\v 15 And I will give you shepherds according to my heart, who shall feed you with knowledge and understanding.
\v 16 And it shall come to pass, when you are multiplied and increased in the land, in those days, says Jehovah, they shall say
no more, The ark of the covenant of Jehovah; neither shall it come to mind; neither shall they remember it; neither shall they
miss it; neither shall it be made any more.
\v 17 At that time they shall call Jerusalem the throne of Jehovah; and all the nations shall be gathered to it, to the name
of Jehovah, to Jerusalem: neither shall they walk any more after the stubbornness of their evil heart.
\v 18 In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, and they shall come together out of the land of the
north to the land that I gave for an inheritance to your fathers.
\p
\v 19 But I said, How I will put you among the children, and give you a pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the hosts of the
nations! and I said, You shall call me My Father, and shall not turn away from following me.
\v 20 Surely as a wife treacherously departs from her husband, so have you dealt treacherously with me, O house of Israel,
says Jehovah.
\v 21 A voice is heard upon the bare heights, the weeping and the supplications of the children of Israel; because
they have perverted their way, they have forgotten Jehovah their God.
\v 22 Return, you backsliding children, I will heal your backslidings.
\p Behold, we are come to thee; for you are Jehovah our God.
\v 23 Truly in vain is the help that is looked for from the hills, the tumult on the mountains: truly in Jehovah our
God is the salvation of Israel.
\v 24 But the shameful thing has devoured the labor of our fathers from our youth, their flocks and their herds, their sons
and their daughters.
\v 25 Let us lie down in our shame, and let our confusion cover us; for we have sinned against Jehovah our God, we and our
fathers, from our youth even to this day; and we have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah our God.