\c 4
\p
\v 1 If you will return, O Israel, says Jehovah, if you will return to me, and if you will put away your abominations
out of my sight; then shall you not be removed;
\v 2 and you shall swear, As Jehovah liveth, in truth, in justice, and in righteousness; and the nations shall bless
themselves in him, and in him shall they glory.
\v 3 For thus says Jehovah to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem, Break up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns.
\p
\v 4 Circumcise yourselves to Jehovah, and take away the foreskins of your heart, you men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem;
lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.
\p
\v 5 Declare you in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, Blow you the trumpet in the land: cry aloud and say, Assemble
yourselves, and let us go into the fortified cities.
\v 6 Set up a standard toward Zion: flee for safety, stay not; for I will bring evil from the north, and a great destruction.
\v 7 A lion is gone up from his thicket, and a destroyer of nations; he is on his way, he is gone forth from his place, to make
your land desolate, that your cities be laid waste, without inhabitant.
\v 8 For this gird you with sackcloth, lament and wail; for the fierce anger of Jehovah is not turned back from us.
\v 9 And it shall come to pass at that day, says Jehovah, that the heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the
princes; and the priests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.
\p
\v 10 Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! surely you have greatly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, You shall have peace;
whereas the sword reaches to the life.
\p
\v 11 At that time shall it be said to this people and to Jerusalem, A hot wind from the bare heights in the wilderness toward
the daughter of my people, not to winnow, nor to cleanse;
\v 12 a full wind from these shall come for me: now will I also utter judgments against them.
\v 13 Behold, he shall come up as clouds, and his chariots shall be
as the whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us! for we are ruined.
\v 14 O Jerusalem, wash your heart from wickedness, that you may be saved. How long shall your evil youghts lodge within
thee?
\v 15 For a voice declares from Dan, and publisheth evil from the hills of Ephraim.
\v 16 Make you mention to the nations; behold, publish against Jerusalem,
that watchers come from a far country, and give out their voice against the cities of Judah.
\v 17 As keepers of a field are they against her round about, because she has been rebellious against me, says Jehovah.
\v 18 Your way and your doings have procured these things to thee; this is your wickedness; for it is bitter, for it reaches
to your heart.
\p
\v 19 My anguish, my anguish! I am pained at my very heart; my heart is disquieted in me; I cannot hold my peace; because you
have heard, O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.
\v 20 Destruction upon destruction is cried; for the whole land is laid waste: suddenly are my tents destroyed,
and my curtains in a moment.
\v 21 How long shall I see the standard, and hear the sound of the trumpet?
\v 22 For my people are foolish, they know me not; they are sottish children, and they have no understanding; they are wise to
do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge.
\p
\v 23 I [*]saw the earth, and, lo, it was waste and void; and the heavens, and they had no light.
\v 24 I [*]saw the mountains, and, lo, they trembled, and all the hills moved to and fro.
\v 25 I beheld, and, lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the heavens were fled.
\v 26 I beheld, and, lo, the fruitful field was a wilderness, and all the cities thereof were broken down at the presence of
Jehovah, and before his fierce anger.
\v 27 For thus says Jehovah, The whole land shall be a desolation; yet will I not make a full end.
\v 28 For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be black; because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and I have
not repented, neither will I turn back from it.
\v 29 Every city fleeth for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen; they go into the thickets, and climb up upon the rocks: every
city is forsaken, and not a man lives therein.
\v 30 And you, when you are made desolate, what will you do? Though you clothest yourself with scarlet, yough you deckest
you with ornaments of gold, yough you enlargest your eyes with paint, in vain do you make yourself fair;
your lovers despise thee, they seek your life.
\v 31 For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, the anguish as of her that brings forth her first child, the voice
of the daughter of Zion, that gaspeth for breath, that spreadeth her hands,
saying, Woe is me now! for my soul fainteth before the murderers.