\c 5
\p
\v 1 Run you to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now, and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if you can
find a man, if there be any that does justly, that seeks truth; and I will pardon her.
\v 2 And though they say, As Jehovah liveth; surely they swear falsely.
\v 3 O Jehovah, do not your eyes look upon truth? you have stricken them, but they were not grieved; you have consumed them,
but they have refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harder than a rock; they have refused to return.
\p
\v 4 Then I said, Surely these are poor; they are foolish; for they know not the way of Jehovah, nor the law of their God:
\v 5 I will get me to the great men, and will speak to them; for they know the way of Jehovah, and the law of their God.
But these with one accord have broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.
\v 6 Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall kill them, a wolf of the evenings shall destroy them, a leopard shall watch
against their cities; every one that goes out thence shall be torn in pieces; because their transgressions are many,
and their backslidings are increased.
\p
\v 7 How can I pardon thee? your children have forsaken me, and sworn by them that are no gods. When I had fed them to the full,
they committed adultery, and assembled themselves in troops at the harlots’ houses;
\v 8 they were as fed horses roaming at large; every one neighed after his neighbor’s wife.
\v 9 Shall I not visit for these things? says Jehovah; and shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
\p
\v 10 Go you up upon her walls, and destroy; but make not a full end: take away her branches; for they are not Jehovah’s.
\v 11 For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very treacherously against me, says Jehovah.
\v 12 They have denied Jehovah, and said, It is not he; neither shall evil come upon us; neither shall we see sword nor famine:
\v 13 and the prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them: thus shall it be done to them.
\p
\v 14 Wherefore thus says Jehovah, the God of hosts, Because you speak this word, behold, I will make my words in your mouth
fire, and this people wood, and it shall devour them.
\v 15 Lo, I will bring a nation upon you from far, O house of Israel, says Jehovah: it is a mighty nation, it is an ancient
nation, a nation whose language you know not, neither understand what they say.
\v 16 Their quiver is an open sepulchre, they are all mighty men.
\v 17 And they shall eat up your harvest, and your bread, which your sons and your daughters should eat; they shall eat
up your flocks and your herds; they shall eat up your vines and your fig-trees; they shall beat down your fortified cities, wherein
you trustest, with the sword.
\v 18 But even in those days, says Jehovah, I will not make a full end with you.
\p
\v 19 And it shall come to pass, when you shall say, Wherefore has Jehovah our God done all these things to us? then shall
you say to them, Like as you have forsaken me, and served foreign gods in your land, so shall you serve strangers in a land
that is not yours.
\p
\v 20 Declare you this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah, saying,
\v 21 Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding; that have eyes, and see not; that have ears, and hear not:
\v 22 Fear you not me? says Jehovah: will you not tremble at my presence, who have placed the sand for the bound of the sea, by
a perpetual decree, that it cannot pass it? and though the waves thereof toss themselves, yet can they not prevail; though they
roar, yet can they not pass over it.
\v 23 But this people has a revolting and a rebellious heart; they are revolted and gone.
\v 24 Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear Jehovah our God, that gives rain, both the former and the latter, in
its season; that preserves to us the appointed weeks of the harvest.
\v 25 Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins have withholden good from you.
\v 26 For among my people are found wicked men: they watch, as fowlers lie in wait; they set a trap, they catch men.
\v 27 As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit: therefore they are become great, and waxed rich.
\v 28 They are waxed fat, they shine: yea, they overpass in deeds of wickedness; they plead not the cause, the cause of the
fatherless, that they may prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge.
\v 29 Shall I not visit for these things? says Jehovah; shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
\p
\v 30 A wonderful and horrible thing is come to pass in the land:
\v 31 the prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means; and my people love to have it so: and what will
you do in the end thereof?