\c 6
\p
\v 1 Flee for safety, you children of Benjamin, out of the midst of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and raise up a
signal on Beth-haccherem; for evil looks forth from the north, and a great destruction.
\v 2 The comely and delicate one, the daughter of Zion, will I cut off.
\v 3 Shepherds with their flocks shall come to her; they shall pitch their tents against her round about; they shall feed
every one in his place.
\v 4 Prepare you war against her; arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe to us! for the day declineth, for the shadows of the
evening are stretched out.
\v 5 Arise, and let us go up by night, and let us destroy her palaces.
\v 6 For thus has Jehovah of hosts said, Hew you down trees, and cast up a mound against Jerusalem: this is the city to be
visited; she is wholly oppression in the midst of her.
\v 7 As a well throws forth its waters, so she throws forth her wickedness: violence and destruction is heard in her; before
me continually is sickness and wounds.
\v 8 Be you instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul be alienated from you; lest I make you a desolation, a land not inhabited.
\p
\v 9 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, They shall thoroughly glean the remnant of Israel as a vine: turn again your hand as a
grape-gatherer into the baskets.
\v 10 To whom shall I speak and testify, that they may hear? behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken:
behold, the word of Jehovah is become to them a reproach; they have no delight in it.
\v 11 Therefore I am full of the wrath of Jehovah; I am weary with holding in: pour it out upon the children in the street, and
upon the assembly of young men together; for even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the aged with him that is full of
days.
\v 12 And their houses shall be turned to others, their fields and their wives together; for I will stretch out my hand upon
the inhabitants of the land, says Jehovah.
\v 13 For from the least of them even to the greatest of them every one is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even
to the priest every one deals falsely.
\v 14 They have healed also the hurt of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.
\v 15 Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush:
therefore they shall fall among them that fall; at the time that I visit them they shall be cast down, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 16 Thus says Jehovah, Stand you in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way; and walk therein, and
you shall find rest for your souls: but they said, We will not walk
therein.
\v 17 And I set watchmen over you, saying, Listen to the sound of the trumpet; but they said, We will not hearken.
\v 18 Therefore hear, you nations, and know, O congregation, what is among them.
\v 19 Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not
listened to my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it.
\v 20 To what purpose comes there to me frankincense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a far country? your burnt offerings
are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing to me.
\v 21 Therefore thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will lay stumbling blocks before this people; and the fathers and the sons
together shall stumble against them; the neighbor and his friend shall perish.
\v 22 Thus says Jehovah, Behold, a people comes from the north country; and a great nation shall be stirred up from the
uttermost parts of the earth.
\p
\v 23 They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roareth like the sea, and they ride upon
horses, every one set in array, as a man to the battle, against thee, O daughter of Zion.
\v 24 We have heard the report thereof; our hands wax feeble: anguish has taken hold of us,
and pangs as of a woman in travail.
\v 25 Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword of the enemy,
and terror, are on every side.
\v 26 O daughter of my people, gird you with sackcloth, and wallow yourself in ashes: make you mourning, as for an only son,
most bitter lamentation; for the destroyer shall suddenly come upon us.
\p
\v 27 I have made you a trier and a fortress among my people; that you may know and try their way.
\v 28 They are all grievous revolters, going about with slanders; they are brass and iron: they all of them deal corruptly.
\v 29 The bellows blow fiercely; the lead is consumed of the fire: in vain do they go on refining; for the wicked are not
plucked away.
\v 30 Refuse silver shall men call them, because Jehovah has rejected them.