\c 7
\p
\v 1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
\v 2 Stand in the gate of Jehovah’s house, and proclaim there this word, and say, Hear the word of Jehovah, all you of Judah,
that enter in at these gates to worship Jehovah.
\v 3 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Amend your ways and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this
place.
\v 4 Trust you not in lying words, saying, The temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Jehovah, are these.
\v 5 For if you thoroughly amend your ways and your doings; if you thoroughly execute justice between a man and his neighbor;
\v 6 if you oppress not the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, and shed not innocent blood in this place, neither walk
after other gods to your own hurt:
\v 7 then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers, from of old even for evermore.
\p
\v 8 Behold, you trust in lying words, that cannot profit.
\v 9 Will you steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, and burn incense to Baal, and walk after other gods that
you have not known,
\v 10 and come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, We are delivered; that you may do all
these abominations?
\v 11 Is this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I, even I, have seen it, says
Jehovah.
\p
\v 12 But go you now to my place which was in Shiloh, where I caused my name to dwell at the first, and see what I did to it
for the wickedness of my people Israel.
\v 13 And now, because you have done all these works, says Jehovah, and I spoke to you, rising up early and speaking, but you
heard not; and I called you, but you answered not:
\v 14 therefore will I do to the house which is called by my name, wherein you trust, and to the place which I gave to you
and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh.
\v 15 And I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all your brethren, even the whole seed of Ephraim.
\p
\v 16 Therefore pray not you for this people, neither lift up cry nor prayer for them, neither make intercession to me; for I
will not hear thee.
\v 17 Seest you not what they do in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
\v 18 The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead the dough, to make cakes to the queen of
heaven, and to pour out drink-offerings to other gods, that they may provoke me to anger.
\v 19 Do they provoke me to anger? says Jehovah; do they not
provoke themselves, to the confusion of their own faces?
\v 20 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, mine anger and my wrath shall be poured out upon this place, upon man, and
upon beast, and upon the trees of the field, and upon the fruit of the ground; and it shall burn, and shall not be quenched.
\p
\v 21 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat you flesh.
\v 22 For I spoke not to your fathers, nor commanded them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning
burnt offerings or sacrifices:
\v 23 but this thing I commanded them, saying, Listen to my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people; and
walk you in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.
\v 24 But they listened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in
their own counsels and in the stubbornness of their evil heart, and went backward, and not forward.
\v 25 Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have sent to you all my servants
the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them:
\v 26 yet they listened not to me, nor inclined their ear, but made their neck stiff: they did worse than their fathers.
\p
\v 27 And you shall speak all these words to them; but they will not listen to thee: you shall also call to them; but
they will not answer thee.
\v 28 And you shall say to them, This is the nation that has not listened to the voice of Jehovah their God, nor received
instruction: truth is perished, and is cut off from their mouth.
\p
\v 29 Cut off your hair, O Jerusalem, and cast it away, and take up a lamentation on the bare heights; for Jehovah
has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.
\v 30 For the children of Judah have done that which is evil in my sight, says Jehovah: they have set their abominations in
the house which is called by my name, to defile it.
\v 31 And they have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their
daughters in the fire; which I commanded not, neither came it into my mind.
\v 32 Therefore, behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that it shall no more be called Topheth, nor The valley of the son of
Hinnom, but The valley of Slaughter: for they shall bury in Topheth, till there be no place
to bury.
\v 33 And the dead bodies of this people shall be food for the birds of the heavens, and for the beasts of the earth; and none
shall frighten them away.
\v 34 Then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth and the voice
of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride; for the land shall become a waste.