\c 9
\p
\v 1 Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the
daughter of my people!
\v 2 Oh that I had in the wilderness a lodging-place of wayfaring men; that I might leave my people, and go from them! for they
are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men.
\v 3 And they bend their tongue, as it were their bow, for falsehood; and they are grown strong in the land, but not
for truth: for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know not me, says Jehovah.
\v 4 Take you heed every one of his neighbor, and trust you not in any brother; for every brother will utterly supplant, and
every neighbor will go about with slanders.
\v 5 And they will deceive every one his neighbor, and will not speak the truth: they have taught their tongue to speak lies;
they weary themselves to commit iniquity.
\v 6 Your habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit they refuse to know me, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 7 Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, Behold, I will melt them, and try them; for how
else should I do, because of the daughter of my people?
\v 8 Their tongue is a deadly arrow; it speaks deceit: one speaks peaceably to his neighbor with his mouth, but in his
heart he lays wait for him.
\v 9 Shall I not visit them for these things? says Jehovah; shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?
\p
\v 10 For the mountains will I take up a weeping and wailing, and for the pastures of the wilderness a lamentation, because
they are burned up, so that none passes through; neither can men hear the voice of the cattle; both the birds of the heavens
and the beasts are fled, they are gone.
\v 11 And I will make Jerusalem heaps, a dwelling-place of jackals; and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation, without
inhabitant.
\v 12 Who is the wise man, that may understand this? and who is
he to whom the mouth of Jehovah has spoken, that he may declare it? wherefore is the land perished and burned up like a
wilderness, so that none passes through?
\v 13 And Jehovah saith, Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neither
walked therein,
\v 14 but have walked after the stubbornness of their own heart, and after the Baalim, which their fathers taught them;
\v 15 therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and
give them water of gall to drink.
\v 16 I will scatter them also among the nations, whom neither they nor their fathers have known; and I will send the sword
after them, till I have consumed them.
\p
\v 17 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Consider ye, and call for the mourning women, that they may come; and send for the skillful
women, that they may come:
\v 18 and let them make haste, and take up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush out
with waters.
\v 19 For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we ruined! we are greatly confounded, because we have forsaken the
land, because they have cast down our dwellings.
\v 20 Yet hear the word of Jehovah, O you women, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth; and teach your daughters
wailing, and every one her neighbor lamentation.
\v 21 For death is come up into our windows, it is entered into our palaces; to cut off the children from without,
and the young men from the streets.
\v 22 Speak, Thus says Jehovah, The dead bodies of men shall fall as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the
harvestman; and none shall gather them.
\p
\v 23 Thus says Jehovah, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the
rich man glory in his riches;
\v 24 but let him that glories glory in this, that he has understanding, and knows me, that I am Jehovah who exerciseth
lovingkindness, justice, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these things I delight, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 25 Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will punish all them that are circumcised in
their uncircumcision:
\v 26 Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all that have the corners
of their hair cut off, that dwell in the wilderness; for all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of
Israel are uncircumcised in heart.