\c 11
\p
\v 1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
\v 2 Hear you the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem;
\v 3 and say you to them, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel: Cursed be the man that hears not the words of this
covenant,
\v 4 which I commanded your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the iron furnace,
saying, Obey my voice, and do them, according to all which I command you: so shall you be my people, and I will be your God;
\v 5 that I may establish the oath which I sware to your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as at this
day. Then answered I, and said, Amen, O Jehovah.
\p
\v 6 And Jehovah said to me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear
you the words of this covenant, and do them.
\v 7 For I earnestly protested to your fathers in the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt, even to this
day, rising early and protesting, saying, Obey my voice.
\v 8 Yet they obeyed not, nor inclined their ear, but walked every one in the stubbornness of their evil heart: therefore I
brought upon them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did them not.
\p
\v 9 And Jehovah said to me, A conspiracy is found among the men of Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
\v 10 They are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear my words; and they are gone after other
gods to serve them: the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant which I made with their fathers.
\v 11 Therefore thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will bring evil upon them, which they shall not be able to escape; and they shall
cry to me, but I will not listen to them.
\v 12 Then shall the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem go and cry to the gods to which they offer incense:
but they will not save them at all in the time of their trouble.
\v 13 For according to the number of your cities are your gods, O Judah; and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem
have you set up altars to the shameful thing, even altars to burn incense to Baal.
\p
\v 14 Therefore pray not you for this people, neither lift up cry nor prayer for them; for I will not hear them in the time
that they cry to me because of their trouble.
\v 15 What has my beloved to do in my house, seeing she has wrought lewdness
with many, and the holy flesh is passed from thee? when you do evil, then you rejoicest.
\v 16 Jehovah called your name, A green olive-tree, fair with goodly fruit: with the noise of a great tumult he has kindled
fire upon it, and the branches of it are broken.
\v 17 For Jehovah of hosts, who planted thee, has pronounced evil against thee, because of the evil of the house of Israel and
of the house of Judah, which they have wrought for themselves in provoking me to anger by offering incense to Baal.
\p
\v 18 And Jehovah gave me knowledge of it, and I knew it: then you showedst me their doings.
\v 19 But I was like a gentle lamb that is led to the slaughter; and I knew not that they had devised devices against me,
saying, Let us destroy the tree with the fruit thereof, and let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his
name may be no more remembered.
\v 20 But, O Jehovah of hosts, who judge righteously, who triest the heart and the mind, I shall see your vengeance on them;
for to you have I revealed my cause.
\v 21 Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning the men of Anathoth, that seek your life, saying, You shall not prophesy in the
name of Jehovah, that you die not by our hand;
\v 22 therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, Behold, I will punish them: the young men shall die by the sword; their sons and
their daughters shall die by famine;
\v 23 and there shall be no remnant to them: for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even the year of their
visitation.