\c 12
\p
\v 1 Righteous are thou, O Jehovah, when I contend with thee; yet would I reason the cause with thee: wherefore does the way of
the wicked prosper? wherefore are all they at ease that deal very treacherously?
\v 2 You have planted them, yea, they have taken root; they grow, yea, they bring forth fruit: you are near in their mouth,
and far from their heart.
\v 3 But you, O Jehovah, know me; you see me, and triest my heart toward thee: pull them out like sheep for the
slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter.
\v 4 How long shall the land mourn, and the herbs of the whole country wither? for the wickedness of them that dwell therein,
the beasts are consumed, and the birds; because they said, He shall not see our latter end.
\p
\v 5 If you have run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee, then how can you contend with horses? and yough in a
land of peace you are secure, yet how will you do in the pride of the Jordan?
\v 6 For even your brethren, and the house of your father, even they have dealt treacherously with thee; even they have cried
aloud after thee: believe them not, though they speak fair words to thee.
\p
\v 7 I have forsaken my house, I have cast off my heritage; I have given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her
enemies.
\v 8 My heritage is become to me as a lion in the forest: she has uttered her voice against me; therefore I have hated her.
\v 9 Is my heritage to me as a speckled bird of prey? are the birds of prey against her round about? go ye, assemble all the
beasts of the field, bring them to devour.
\v 10 Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my portion under foot, they have made my pleasant portion a
desolate wilderness.
\v 11 They have made it a desolation; it mourneth to me, being desolate; the whole land is made desolate, because no man
lays it to heart.
\v 12 Destroyers are come upon all the bare heights in the wilderness; for the sword of Jehovah devours from the one end of
the land even to the other end of the land: no flesh has peace.
\v 13 They have sown wheat, and have reaped thorns; they have put themselves to pain, and profit nothing: and you shall be
ashamed of your fruits, because of the fierce anger of Jehovah.
\p
\v 14 Thus says Jehovah against all mine evil neighbors, that touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to
inherit: behold, I will pluck them up from off their land, and will pluck up the house of Judah from among them.
\v 15 And it shall come to pass, after that I have plucked them up, I will return and have compassion on them; and I will bring
them again, every man to his heritage, and every man to his land.
\v 16 And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name, As Jehovah liveth;
even as they taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built up in the midst of my people.
\v 17 But if they will not hear, then will I pluck up that nation, plucking up and destroying it, says Jehovah.