\c 14
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought.
\p
\v 2 Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish, they sit in black upon the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.
\v 3 And their nobles send their little ones to the waters: they come to the cisterns, and find no water; they return with
their vessels empty; they are put to shame and confounded, and cover their heads.
\v 4 Because of the ground which is cracked, for that no rain has been in the land, the plowmen are put to shame, they cover
their heads.
\v 5 Yea, the hind also in the field calveth, and forsakes her
young, because there is no grass.
\v 6 And the wild asses stand on the bare heights, they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail, because there is no
herbage.
\p
\v 7 Though our iniquities testify against us, work you for your name’s sake, O Jehovah; for our backslidings are many; we have
sinned against thee.
\v 8 O you hope of Israel, the Saviour thereof in the time of trouble, why should you be as a sojourner in the land, and
as a wayfaring man that turns aside to wait for a night?
\v 9 Why should you be as a man affrighted, as a mighty man that cannot save? yet you, O Jehovah, are in the midst of us,
and we are called by your name; leave us not.
\p
\v 10 Thus says Jehovah to this people, Even so have they loved to wander; they have not refrained their feet: therefore
Jehovah does not accept them; now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins.
\v 11 And Jehovah said to me, Pray not for this people for their
good.
\v 12 When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer burnt offering and meal-offering, I will not accept them;
but I will consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.
\p
\v 13 Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! behold, the prophets say to them, You shall not see the sword, neither shall you have
famine; but I will give you assured peace in this place.
\v 14 Then Jehovah said to me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name; I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither
spoke I to them: they prophesy to you a lying vision, and divination, and a thing of nought, and the deceit of their own
heart.
\v 15 Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning the prophets that prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword
and famine shall not be in this land: By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed.
\v 16 And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword;
and they shall have none to bury them—them, their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness
upon them.
\v 17 And you shall say this word to them, Let mine eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease; for the
virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous wound.
\v 18 If I go forth into the field, then, behold, the slain with the sword! and if I enter into the city, then, behold, they
that are sick with famine! for both the prophet and the priest go about in the land, and have no knowledge.
\p
\v 19 Hast you utterly rejected Judah? has your soul loathed Zion? why have you struck us, and there is no healing for us?
We looked for peace, but no good came; and for a time of healing, and, behold, dismay!
\v 20 We acknowledge, O Jehovah, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our fathers; for we have sinned against thee.
\v 21 Do not abhor us, for your name’s sake; do not disgrace the throne of your glory: remember, break not your covenant
with us.
\v 22 Are there any among the vanities of the nations that can cause rain? or can the heavens give showers? are not you he, O
Jehovah our God? therefore we will wait for thee; for you have made all these things.