\c 15
\p
\v 1 Then said Jehovah to me, Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my mind would not be toward this people: cast them
out of my sight, and let them go forth.
\v 2 And it shall come to pass, when they say to thee, Whither shall we go forth? then you shall tell them, Thus says
Jehovah: Such as are for death, to death; and such as are for the sword, to the sword; and such as are for the famine, to the
famine; and such as are for captivity, to captivity.
\v 3 And I will appoint over them four kinds, says Jehovah: the sword to slay, and the dogs to tear, and the birds of the
heavens, and the beasts of the earth, to devour and to destroy.
\v 4 And I will cause them to be tossed to and fro among all the kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh, the son of
Hezekiah, king of Judah, for that which he did in Jerusalem.
\p
\v 5 For who will have pity upon thee, O Jerusalem? or who will bemoan thee? or who will turn aside to ask of your welfare?
\v 6 You have rejected me, says Jehovah, you are gone backward: therefore have I stretched out my hand against thee, and
destroyed thee; I am weary with repenting.
\v 7 And I have winnowed them with a fan in the gates of the land; I have bereaved
them of children, I have destroyed my people; they returned not from their ways.
\v 8 Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas; I have brought upon them against the mother of the young men
a destroyer at noonday: I have caused anguish and terrors to fall upon her suddenly.
\v 9 She that has borne seven languisheth; she has given up the ghost; her sun is gone down while it was yet day; she has
been put to shame and confounded: and the residue of them will I deliver to the sword before their enemies, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 10 Woe is me, my mother, that you have borne me a man of strife and a man of contention to the whole earth! I have not
lent, neither have men lent to me; yet every one of them does curse me.
\p
\v 11 Jehovah said, Verily I will strengthen you for good; verily I will cause the enemy to make supplication to you in the
time of evil and in the time of affliction.
\v 12 Can one break iron, even iron from the north, and brass?
\v 13 Your substance and your treasures will I give for a spoil without price, and that for all your sins, even in all your
borders.
\v 14 And I will make them to pass with your enemies into a land which you know not; for a fire is kindled in
mine anger, which shall burn upon you.
\p
\v 15 O Jehovah, you knowest; remember me, and visit me, and avenge me of my persecutors; take me not away in your
longsuffering: know that for your sake I have suffered reproach.
\v 16 Your words were found, and I did eat them; and your words were to me a joy and the rejoicing of my heart: for I am called
by your name, O Jehovah, God of hosts.
\v 17 I sat not in the assembly of them that make merry, nor rejoiced; I sat alone because of your hand; for you have filled me
with indignation.
\v 18 Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refuseth to be healed? will you indeed be to me as a deceitful
brook, as waters that fail?
\p
\v 19 Therefore thus says Jehovah, If you return, then will I bring you again, that you may stand before me; and if you
take forth the precious from the vile, you shall be as my mouth: they shall return to thee, but you shall not return to
them.
\v 20 And I will make you to this people a fortified brazen wall; and they shall fight against you, but they shall not
prevail against you; for I am with you to save you and to deliver you, says Jehovah.
\v 21 And I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked, and I will redeem you out of the hand of the terrible.