\c 16
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah came also to me, saying,
\v 2 You shall not take you a wife, neither shall you have sons or daughters, in this place.
\v 3 For thus says Jehovah concerning the sons and concerning the daughters that are born in this place, and concerning their
mothers that bare them, and concerning their fathers that became the father of them in this land:
\v 4 They shall die grievous deaths: they shall not be lamented, neither shall they be buried; they shall be as dung upon the
face of the ground; and they shall be consumed by the sword, and by famine; and their dead bodies shall be food for the birds
of the heavens, and for the beasts of the earth.
\p
\v 5 For thus says Jehovah, Enter not into the house of mourning, neither go to lament, neither bemoan them; for I have taken
away my peace from this people, says Jehovah, even lovingkindness and tender mercies.
\v 6 Both great and small shall die in this land; they shall not be buried, neither shall men lament for them, nor cut
themselves, nor make themselves bald for them;
\v 7 neither shall men break bread for them in mourning, to comfort them for the dead; neither shall men give them
the cup of consolation to drink for their father or for their mother.
\v 8 And you shall not go into the house of feasting to sit with them, to eat and to drink.
\v 9 For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will cause to cease out of this place, before your eyes and
in your days, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride.
\p
\v 10 And it shall come to pass, when you shall show this people all these words, and they shall say to thee, Wherefore has
Jehovah pronounced all this great evil against us? or what is our iniquity? or what is our sin that we have committed against
Jehovah our God?
\v 11 then shall you say to them, Because your fathers have forsaken me, says Jehovah, and have walked after other gods,
and have served them, and have worshipped them, and have forsaken me, and have not kept my law;
\v 12 and you have done evil more than your fathers; for, behold, you walk every one after the stubbornness of his evil heart, so
that you listen not to me:
\v 13 therefore will I cast you forth out of this land into the land that you have not known, neither you nor your fathers; and
there shall you serve other gods day and night; for I will show you no favor.
\p
\v 14 Therefore, behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that it shall no more be said, As Jehovah liveth, that brought up the
children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;
\v 15 but, As Jehovah liveth, that brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the countries
whither he had driven them. And I will bring them again into their land that I gave to their fathers.
\p
\v 16 Behold, I will send for many fishers, says Jehovah, and they shall fish them up; and afterward I will send for many
hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the clefts of the rocks.
\v 17 For mine eyes are upon all their ways; they are not hid from my face, neither is their iniquity concealed from mine eyes.
\v 18 And first I will recompense their iniquity and their sin double, because they have polluted my land with the carcasses of
their detestable things, and have filled mine inheritance with their abominations.
\p
\v 19 O Jehovah, my strength, and my stronghold, and my refuge in the day of affliction, to you shall the nations come from
the ends of the earth, and shall say, Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies,
even vanity and things wherein there is no profit.
\v 20 Shall a man make to himself gods, which yet are no gods?
\p
\v 21 Therefore, behold, I will cause them to know, this once will I cause them to know my hand and my might; and they shall
know that my name is Jehovah.