\c 17
\p
\v 1 The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the point of a diamond: it is graven upon the tablet of
their heart, and upon the horns of your altars;
\v 2 while their children remember their altars and their Asherim by the green trees upon the high hills.
\v 3 O my mountain in the field, I will give your substance and all your treasures for a spoil,
and your high places, because of sin, throughout all your borders.
\v 4 And thou, even of yourself, shall discontinue from your heritage that I gave you; and I will cause you to serve your
enemies in the land which you know not: for you have kindled a fire in mine anger which shall burn for ever.
\p
\v 5 Thus says Jehovah: Cursed is the man that trusts in man, and makes flesh his arm, and whose heart departs from
Jehovah.
\v 6 For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh, but shall inhabit the parched places in
the wilderness, a salt land and not inhabited.
\v 7 Blessed is the man that trusts in Jehovah, and whose trust Jehovah is.
\v 8 For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, that spreadeth out its roots by the river, and shall not fear when heat
cometh, but its leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit.
\p
\v 9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and it is exceedingly corrupt: who can know it?
\v 10 I, Jehovah, search the mind, I try the heart, even to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his
doings.
\v 11 As the partridge that sits on eggs which she has not laid, so is he that gets riches, and not by right;
in the midst of his days they shall leave him, and at his end he shall be a fool.
\p
\v 12 A glorious throne, set on high from the beginning, is the place of our sanctuary.
\v 13 O Jehovah, the hope of Israel, all that forsake you shall be put to shame. They that depart from me shall be written in
the earth, because they have forsaken Jehovah, the fountain of living waters.
\v 14 Heal me, O Jehovah, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved: for you are my praise.
\v 15 Behold, they say to me, Where is the word of Jehovah? let it come now.
\v 16 As for me, I have not hastened from being a shepherd after thee; neither have I desired the woeful day; you knowest:
that which came out of my lips was before your face.
\v 17 Be not a terror to me: you are my refuge in the day of evil.
\v 18 Let them be put to shame that persecute me, but let not me be put to shame; let them be dismayed, but let not me be
dismayed; bring upon them the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction.
\p
\v 19 Thus said Jehovah to me: Go, and stand in the gate of the children of the people, whereby the kings of Judah come in,
and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem;
\v 20 and say to them, Hear you the word of Jehovah, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
that enter in by these gates:
\v 21 Thus says Jehovah, Take heed to yourselves, and bear no burden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of
Jerusalem;
\v 22 neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbath day, neither do you any work: but hallow you the sabbath
day, as I commanded your fathers.
\v 23 But they listened not, neither inclined their ear, but made their neck stiff, that they might not hear, and might not
receive instruction.
\p
\v 24 And it shall come to pass, if you diligently listen to me, says Jehovah, to bring in no burden through the gates of
this city on the sabbath day, but to hallow the sabbath day, to do no work therein;
\v 25 then shall there enter in by the gates of this city kings and princes sitting upon the throne of David, riding in
chariots and on horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city shall remain
for ever.
\v 26 And they shall come from the cities of Judah, and from the places round about Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin,
and from the lowland, and from the hill-country, and from the South, bringing burnt-offerings, and sacrifices, and
meal-offerings, and frankincense, and bringing sacrifices of thanksgiving, to the house of Jehovah.
\v 27 But if you will not listen to me to hallow the sabbath day, and not to bear a burden and enter in at the gates of
Jerusalem on the sabbath day; then will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and
it shall not be quenched.