\c 18
\p
\v 1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
\v 2 Arise, and go down to the potter’s house, and there I will cause you to hear my words.
\v 3 Then I went down to the potter’s house, and, behold, he was making a work on the wheels.
\v 4 And when the vessel that he made of the clay was marred in the hand of the potter, he made it again another vessel, as
seemed good to the potter to make it.
\p
\v 5 Then the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 6 O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter? says Jehovah. Behold, as the clay in the potter’s hand, so are you
in my hand, O house of Israel.
\v 7 At what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to pluck up and to break down and to destroy
it;
\v 8 if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, turn from their evil, I will repent of the evil that I thought to do to
them.
\v 9 And at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it;
\v 10 if they do that which is evil in my sight, that they obey not my voice, then I will repent of the good, wherewith I said
I would benefit them.
\v 11 Now therefore, speak to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus says Jehovah: Behold, I
frame evil against you, and devise a device against you: return you now every one from his evil way, and amend your ways and
your doings.
\v 12 But they say, It is in vain; for we will walk after our own devices, and we will do every one after the stubbornness of
his evil heart.
\p
\v 13 Therefore thus says Jehovah: Ask you now among the nations, who has heard such things; the virgin of Israel has done a
very horrible thing.
\v 14 Shall the snow of Lebanon fail from the rock of the field?
or shall the cold waters that flow down from afar be dried up?
\v 15 For my people have forgotten me, they have burned incense to false
gods; and they have been made to stumble in their ways, in the ancient paths, to walk in bypaths, in a way not cast
up;
\v 16 to make their land an astonishment, and a perpetual hissing; every one that passes thereby shall be astonished, and
shake his head.
\v 17 I will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; I will show them the back, and not the face, in the day of
their calamity.
\p
\v 18 Then said they, Come, and let us devise devices against Jeremiah; for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor
counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, and let us strike him with the tongue, and let us not give heed to
any of his words.
\p
\v 19 Give heed to me, O Jehovah, and listen to the voice of them that contend with me.
\v 20 Shall evil be recompensed for good? for they have digged a pit for my soul. Remember how I stood before you to speak
good for them, to turn away your wrath from them.
\v 21 Therefore deliver up their children to the famine, and give them over to the power of the sword; and let their wives
become childless, and widows; and let their men be slain of death,
and their young men struck of the sword in battle.
\v 22 Let a cry be heard from their houses, when you shall bring a troop suddenly upon them; for they have digged a pit to
take me, and hid snares for my feet.
\v 23 Yet, Jehovah, you know all their counsel against me to kill me; forgive not their iniquity, neither blot out their
sin from your sight; but let them be overthrown before thee; deal you with them in the time of your anger.