\c 20
\p
\v 1 Now Pashhur, the son of Immer the priest, who was chief officer in the house of Jehovah, heard Jeremiah prophesying these
things.
\v 2 Then Pashhur struck Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper gate of Benjamin, which was in
the house of Jehovah.
\v 3 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Pashhur brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then said Jeremiah to him,
Jehovah has not called your name Pashhur, but Magor-missabib.
\v 4 For thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself, and to all your friends; and they shall fall by the
sword of their enemies, and your eyes shall behold it; and I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he
shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall kill them with the sword.
\v 5 Moreover I will give all the riches of this city, and all the gains thereof, and all the precious things thereof, yea, all
the treasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their enemies; and they shall make them a prey, and take them,
and carry them to Babylon.
\v 6 And you, Pashhur, and all that dwell in your house shall go into captivity; and you shall come to Babylon, and there you
shall die, and there shall you be buried, you, and all your friends, to whom you have prophesied falsely.
\p
\v 7 O Jehovah, you have persuaded me, and I was persuaded; you are stronger than I, and have prevailed: I am become a
laughing stock all the day, every one mocketh me.
\v 8 For as often as I speak, I cry out; I cry, Violence and destruction! because the word of Jehovah is made a reproach to
me, and a derision, all the day.
\v 9 And if I say, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in his name, then there is in my heart as it were a
burning fire shut up in my bones, and I am weary with forbearing, and I cannot
contain.
\v 10 For I have heard the defaming of many, terror on every side. Denounce, and we will denounce him,
say all my familiar friends, they that watch for my fall; perhaps he will be persuaded, and we shall prevail
against him, and we shall take our revenge on him.
\v 11 But Jehovah is with me as a mighty one and a terrible: therefore my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall
not prevail; they shall be utterly put to shame, because they have not dealt wisely, even with an everlasting dishonor which
shall never be forgotten.
\v 12 But, O Jehovah of hosts, that triest the righteous, that see the heart and the mind, let me see your vengeance on them;
for to you have I revealed my cause.
\v 13 Sing to Jehovah, praise you Jehovah; for he has delivered the soul of the needy from the hand of evil-doers.
\p
\v 14 Cursed be the day wherein I was born: let not the day wherein my mother bare me be blessed.
\v 15 Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A boy is born to thee; making him very glad.
\v 16 And let that man be as the cities which Jehovah overthrew, and repented not: and let him hear a cry in the morning, and
shouting at noontime;
\v 17 because he killed me not from the womb; and so my mother would have been my grave, and her womb always great.
\v 18 Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labor and sorrow, that my days should be consumed with shame?