\c 21
\p
\v 1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, when king Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchijah, and
Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, saying,
\v 2 Inquire, I pray thee, of Jehovah for us; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon makes war against us: perhaps Jehovah
will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that he may go up from us.
\p
\v 3 Then said Jeremiah to them, Thus shall you say to Zedekiah:
\v 4 Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, wherewith you
fight against the king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans that besiege you, without the walls; and I will gather them into
the midst of this city.
\v 5 And I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a strong arm, even in anger, and in wrath, and in
great indignation.
\v 6 And I will strike the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast: they shall die of a great pestilence.
\v 7 And afterward, says Jehovah, I will deliver Zedekiah king of Judah, and his servants, and the people, even such as are
left in this city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon,
and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those that seek their life: and he shall strike them with the edge of
the sword; he shall not spare them, neither have pity, nor have mercy.
\p
\v 8 And to this people you shall say, Thus says Jehovah: Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death.
\v 9 He that remains in this city shall die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he that goes out, and
passes over to the Chaldeans that besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall be to him for a prey.
\v 10 For I have set my face upon this city for evil, and not for good, says Jehovah: it shall be given into the hand of the
king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
\p
\v 11 And touching the house of the king of Judah, hear you the word of Jehovah:
\v 12 O house of David, thus says Jehovah, Execute justice in the morning, and deliver him that is robbed out of the hand of
the oppressor, lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn so that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.
\v 13 Behold, I am against thee, O inhabitant of the valley, and
of the rock of the plain, says Jehovah; you that say, Who shall come down against us? or who shall enter into our
habitations?
\v 14 And I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, says Jehovah; and I will kindle a fire in her forest, and
it shall devour all that is round about her.