\c 22
\p
\v 1 Thus said Jehovah: Go down to the house of the king of Judah, and speak there this word,
\v 2 and say, Hear the word of Jehovah, O king of Judah, that sit upon the throne of David, thou, and your servants, and your
people that enter in by these gates.
\v 3 Thus says Jehovah: Execute you justice and righteousness, and deliver him that is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor:
and do no wrong, do no violence, to the sojourner, the fatherless, nor the widow; neither shed innocent blood in this place.
\v 4 For if you do this thing indeed, then shall there enter in by the gates of this house kings sitting upon the throne of
David, riding in chariots and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people.
\v 5 But if you will not hear these words, I swear by myself, says Jehovah, that this house shall become a desolation.
\v 6 For thus says Jehovah concerning the house of the king of Judah: You are Gilead to me,
and the head of Lebanon; yet surely I will make you a wilderness,
and cities which are not inhabited.
\v 7 And I will prepare destroyers against thee, every one with his weapons; and they shall cut down your choice cedars, and
cast them into the fire.
\v 8 And many nations shall pass by this city, and they shall say every man to his neighbor, Wherefore has Jehovah done thus
to this great city?
\v 9 Then they shall answer, Because they forsook the covenant of Jehovah their God, and worshipped other gods, and served
them.
\p
\v 10 Weep you not for the dead, neither bemoan him; but weep sore for him that goes away; for he shall return no more, nor see
his native country.
\v 11 For thus says Jehovah touching Shallum the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father,
and who went forth out of this place: He shall not return there any more;
\v 12 but in the place whither they have led him captive, there shall he die, and he shall see this land no more.
\p
\v 13 Woe to him that builds his house by unrighteousness, and his chambers by injustice; that uses his neighbor’s service
without wages, and gives him not his hire;
\v 14 that saith, I will build me a wide house and spacious chambers, and cuts him out windows; and it is ceiled with cedar,
and painted with vermilion.
\v 15 Shall you reign, because you strivest to excel in cedar? Did not your father eat and drink, and do justice and
righteousness? then it was well with him.
\v 16 He judged the cause of the poor and needy; then it was well. Was not this to know me? says Jehovah.
\v 17 But your eyes and your heart are not but for your covetousness, and for shedding innocent blood, and for oppression, and
for violence, to do it.
\v 18 Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah: they shall not lament for him,
saying, Ah my brother! or, Ah sister! They shall not lament for him,
saying Ah lord! or, Ah his glory!
\v 19 He shall be buried with the burial of an ass, drawn and cast forth beyond the gates of Jerusalem.
\p
\v 20 Go up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up your voice in Bashan, and cry from Abarim; for all your lovers are destroyed.
\v 21 I spoke to you in your prosperity; but you saidst, I will not hear. This has been your manner from your youth, that
you obeyedst not my voice.
\v 22 The wind shall feed all your shepherds, and your lovers shall go into captivity: surely then shall you be ashamed and
confounded for all your wickedness.
\v 23 O inhabitant of Lebanon, that make your nest in the cedars, how greatly to be pitied shall you be when pangs come upon
thee, the pain as of a woman in travail!
\p
\v 24 As I live, says Jehovah, though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet upon my right hand, yet would
I pluck you thence;
\v 25 and I will give you into the hand of them that seek your life, and into the hand of them of whom you are afraid, even
into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of the Chaldeans.
\v 26 And I will cast you out, and your mother that bare you, into another country, where you were not born; and there shall you
die.
\v 27 But to the land whereunto their soul longeth to return, there shall they not return.
\v 28 Is this man Coniah a despised broken vessel? is he a vessel wherein none delighteth? wherefore are they cast out, he and
his seed, and are cast into the land which they know not?
\v 29 O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of Jehovah.
\v 30 Thus says Jehovah, Write you this man childless, a man that shall not prosper in his days; for no more shall a man of his
seed prosper, sitting upon the throne of David, and ruling in Judah.