\c 23
\p
\v 1 Woe to the shepherds that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture! says Jehovah.
\v 2 Therefore thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, against the shepherds that feed my people: You have scattered my flock,
and driven them away, and have not visited them; behold, I will visit upon you the evil of your doings, says Jehovah.
\v 3 And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries whither I have driven them, and will bring them again
to their folds; and they shall be fruitful and multiply.
\v 4 And I will set up shepherds over them, who shall feed them; and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall
any be lacking, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 5 Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will raise to David a righteous Branch, and he shall reign as king and deal
wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
\v 6 In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely; and this is his name whereby he shall be called: Jehovah
our righteousness.
\v 7 Therefore, behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that they shall no more say, As Jehovah liveth, who brought up the
children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;
\v 8 but, As Jehovah liveth, who brought up and who led the seed of the house of Israel out of the north country, and from all
the countries whither I had driven them. And they shall dwell in their own land.
\p
\v 9 Concerning the prophets. My heart within me is broken, all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom
wine has overcome, because of Jehovah, and because of his holy words.
\v 10 For the land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing the land mourneth; the pastures of the wilderness are dried
up. And their course is evil, and their might is not right;
\v 11 for both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in my house have I found their wickedness, says Jehovah.
\v 12 Wherefore their way shall be to them as slippery places in the darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein; for
I will bring evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 13 And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied by Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.
\v 14 In the prophets of Jerusalem also I have seen a horrible thing: they commit adultery, and walk in lies; and they
strengthen the hands of evil-doers, so that none does return from his wickedness: they are all of them become to me as Sodom,
and the inhabitants thereof as Gomorrah.
\v 15 Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts concerning the prophets: Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and make them
drink the water of gall; for from the prophets of Jerusalem is ungodliness gone forth into all the land.
\p
\v 16 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, Listen not to the words of the prophets that prophesy to you: they teach you vanity;
they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of Jehovah.
\v 17 They say continually to them that despise me, Jehovah has said, You shall have peace; and to every one that walks
in the stubbornness of his own heart they say, No evil shall come upon you.
\v 18 For who has stood in the council of Jehovah, that he should perceive and hear his word? who has marked my word, and
heard it?
\v 19 Behold, the tempest of Jehovah, even his wrath, is gone forth, yea, a whirling tempest: it shall burst upon the
head of the wicked.
\v 20 The anger of Jehovah shall not return, until he have executed, and till he have performed the intents of his heart: in
the latter days you shall understand it perfectly.
\v 21 I sent not these prophets, yet they ran: I spoke not to them, yet they prophesied.
\v 22 But if they had stood in my council, then had they caused my people to hear my words, and had turned them from their evil
way, and from the evil of their doings.
\p
\v 23 Am I a God at hand, says Jehovah, and not a God afar off?
\v 24 Can any hide himself in secret places so that I shall not see him? says Jehovah. Do not I fill heaven and earth? says
Jehovah.
\v 25 I have heard what the prophets have said, that prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed.
\v 26 How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that prophesy lies, even the prophets of the deceit of their own
heart?
\v 27 that think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they tell every man to his neighbor, as their
fathers forgat my name for Baal.
\v 28 The prophet that has a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that has my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is
the straw to the wheat? says Jehovah.
\v 29 Is not my word like fire? says Jehovah; and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?
\v 30 Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, says Jehovah, that steal my words every one from his neighbor.
\v 31 Behold, I am against the prophets, says Jehovah, that use their tongues, and say, He says.
\v 32 Behold, I am against them that prophesy lying dreams, says Jehovah, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by
their lies, and by their vain boasting: yet I sent them not, nor commanded them; neither do they profit this people at all,
says Jehovah.
\p
\v 33 And when this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask thee, saying, What is the burden of Jehovah? then shall you
say to them, What burden! I will cast you off, says Jehovah.
\v 34 And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, that shall say, The burden of Jehovah, I will even punish that
man and his house.
\v 35 Thus shall you say every one to his neighbor, and every one to his brother, What has Jehovah answered? and, What has
Jehovah spoken?
\v 36 And the burden of Jehovah shall you mention no more: for every man’s own word shall be his burden; for you have perverted
the words of the living God, of Jehovah of hosts our God.
\v 37 Thus shall you say to the prophet, What has Jehovah answered thee? and, What has Jehovah spoken?
\v 38 But if you say, The burden of Jehovah; therefore thus says Jehovah: Because you say this word, The burden of Jehovah, and
I have sent to you, saying, You shall not say, The burden of Jehovah;
\v 39 therefore, behold, I will utterly forget you, and I will cast you off, and the city that I gave to you and to your
fathers, away from my presence:
\v 40 and I will bring an everlasting reproach upon you, and a perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.