\c 26
\p
\v 1 In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, came this word from Jehovah, saying,
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah: Stand in the court of Jehovah’s house, and speak to all the cities of Judah, which come to worship
in Jehovah’s house, all the words that I command you to speak to them; diminish not a word.
\v 3 It may be they will hearken, and turn every man from his evil way; that I may repent me of the evil which I purpose to do
to them because of the evil of their doings.
\v 4 And you shall say to them, Thus says Jehovah: If you will not listen to me, to walk in my law, which I have set before
you,
\v 5 to listen to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I send to you, even rising up early and sending them, but you
have not hearkened;
\v 6 then will I make this house like Shiloh, and will make this city a curse to all the nations of the earth.
\v 7 And the priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of Jehovah.
\p
\v 8 And it came to pass, when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking all that Jehovah had commanded him to speak to all the
people, that the priests and the prophets and all the people laid hold on him, saying, You shall surely die.
\v 9 Why have you prophesied in the name of Jehovah, saying, This house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate,
without inhabitant? And all the people were gathered to Jeremiah in the house of Jehovah.
\p
\v 10 And when the princes of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king’s house to the house of Jehovah; and they
sat in the entry of the new gate of Jehovah’s house.
\v 11 Then spoke the priests and the prophets to the princes and to all the people, saying, This man is worthy of death; for
he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your ears.
\v 12 Then spoke Jeremiah to all the princes and to all the people, saying, Jehovah sent me to prophesy against this house
and against this city all the words that you have heard.
\v 13 Now therefore amend your ways and your doings, and obey the voice of Jehovah your God; and Jehovah will repent him of the
evil that he has pronounced against you.
\v 14 But as for me, behold, I am in your hand: do with me as is good and right in your eyes.
\v 15 Only know you for certain that, if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this city,
and upon the inhabitants thereof; for of a truth Jehovah has sent me to you to speak all these words in your ears.
\p
\v 16 Then said the princes and all the people to the priests and to the prophets: This man is not worthy of death; for he
has spoken to us in the name of Jehovah our God.
\v 17 Then rose up certain of the elders of the land, and spoke to all the assembly of the people, saying,
\v 18 Micah the Morashtite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah; and he spoke to all the people of Judah, saying,
Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Zion shall be plowed as a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house
as the high places of a forest.
\v 19 Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him to death? did he not fear Jehovah, and entreat the favor of Jehovah, and
Jehovah repented him of the evil which he had pronounced against them? Thus should we commit great evil against our own souls.
\p
\v 20 And there was also a man that prophesied in the name of Jehovah, Uriah the son of Shemaiah of Kiriath-jearim; and he
prophesied against this city and against this land according to all the words of Jeremiah.
\v 21 And when Jehoiakim the king, with all his mighty men, and all the princes, heard his words, the king sought to put him to
death; but when Uriah heard it, he was afraid, and fled, and went into Egypt.
\v 22 And Jehoiakim the king sent men into Egypt, namely, Elnathan the son of Achbor, and certain men with him, into
Egypt;
\v 23 and they fetched forth Uriah out of Egypt, and brought him to Jehoiakim the king, who killed him with the sword, and cast
his dead body into the graves of the common people.
\v 24 But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, that they should not give him into the hand of the people to
put him to death.