\c 28
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass the same year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the
fifth month, that Hananiah the son of Azzur, the prophet, who was of Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of Jehovah, in the
presence of the priests and of all the people, saying,
\v 2 Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.
\v 3 Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the vessels of Jehovah’s house, that Nebuchadnezzar king of
Babylon took away from this place, and carried to Babylon:
\v 4 and I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, with all the captives of Judah, that
went to Babylon, says Jehovah; for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.
\p
\v 5 Then the prophet Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the
people that stood in the house of Jehovah,
\v 6 even the prophet Jeremiah said, Amen: Jehovah do so; Jehovah perform your words which you have prophesied, to bring again
the vessels of Jehovah’s house, and all them of the captivity, from Babylon to this place.
\v 7 Nevertheless hear you now this word that I speak in your ears, and in the ears of all the people:
\v 8 The prophets that have been before me and before you of old prophesied against many countries, and against great
kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence.
\v 9 The prophet that prophesieth of peace, when the word of the prophet shall come to pass, then shall the prophet be known,
that Jehovah has truly sent him.
\v 10 Then Hananiah the prophet took the bar from off the prophet Jeremiah’s neck, and brake it.
\v 11 And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus says Jehovah: Even so will I break the yoke of
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon within two full years from off the neck of all the nations. And the prophet Jeremiah went his
way.
\p
\v 12 Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, after that Hananiah the prophet had broken the bar from off the neck of the
prophet Jeremiah, saying,
\v 13 Go, and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus says Jehovah: You have broken the bars of wood; but you have made in their stead
bars of iron.
\v 14 For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron upon the neck of all these nations, that
they may serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and they shall serve him: and I have given him the beasts of the field also.
\v 15 Then said the prophet Jeremiah to Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah: Jehovah has not sent thee; but you make
this people to trust in a lie.
\v 16 Therefore thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will send you away from off the face of the earth: this year you shall die,
because you have spoken rebellion against Jehovah.
\v 17 So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month.