\c 29
\p
\v 1 Now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the residue of the elders of the
captivity, and to the priests, and to the prophets, and to all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from
Jerusalem to Babylon,
\v 2 (after that Jeconiah the king, and the queen-mother, and the eunuchs,
and the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, and the craftsmen, and the smiths, were departed from Jerusalem),
\v 3 by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon
to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon), saying,
\v 4 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the captivity, whom I have caused to be carried away captive from
Jerusalem to Babylon:
\v 5 Build you houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them.
\v 6 Take you wives, and beget sons and daughters; and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters to husbands, that they
may bear sons and daughters: and multiply you there, and be not diminished.
\v 7 And seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be carried away captive, and pray to Jehovah for it; for in
the peace thereof shall you have peace.
\v 8 For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Let not your prophets that are in the midst of you, and your diviners,
deceive you; neither listen you to your dreams which you cause to be dreamed.
\v 9 For they prophesy falsely to you in my name: I have not sent them, says Jehovah.
\v 10 For thus says Jehovah, After seventy years are accomplished for Babylon, I will visit you, and perform my good word
toward you, in causing you to return to this place.
\v 11 For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, says Jehovah, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you hope in
your latter end.
\v 12 And you shall call upon me, and you shall go and pray to me, and I will listen to you.
\v 13 And you shall seek me, and find me, when you shall search for me with all your heart.
\v 14 And I will be found of you, says Jehovah, and I will turn again your captivity, and I will gather you from all the
nations, and from all the places whither I have driven you, says Jehovah; and I will bring you again to the place whence I
caused you to be carried away captive.
\p
\v 15 Because you have said, Jehovah has raised us up prophets in Babylon;
\v 16 thus says Jehovah concerning the king that sits upon the throne of David, and concerning all the people that dwell in
this city, your brethren that are not gone forth with you into captivity;
\v 17 thus says Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will send upon them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will make them
like vile figs, that cannot be eaten, they are so bad.
\v 18 And I will pursue after them with the sword, with the famine, and with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be tossed
to and fro among all the kingdoms of the earth, to be an execration, and an astonishment, and a hissing, and a reproach, among
all the nations whither I have driven them;
\v 19 because they have not listened to my words, says Jehovah, wherewith I sent to them my servants the prophets, rising
up early and sending them; but you would not hear, says Jehovah.
\v 20 Hear you therefore the word of Jehovah, all you of the captivity, whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon.
\p
\v 21 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and concerning Zedekiah the son of
Maaseiah, who prophesy a lie to you in my name: Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon;
and he shall kill them before your eyes;
\v 22 and of them shall be taken up a curse by all the captives of Judah that are in Babylon, saying, Jehovah make you like
Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire;
\v 23 because they have wrought folly in Israel, and have committed adultery with their neighbors’ wives, and have spoken words
in my name falsely, which I commanded them not; and I am he that knoweth, and am witness, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 24 And concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite you shall speak, saying,
\v 25 Thus speaks Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, Because you have sent letters in your own name to all the
people that are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, and to all the priests, saying,
\v 26 Jehovah has made you priest in the stead of Jehoiada the priest, that there may be officers in the house of Jehovah,
for every man that is mad, and makes himself a prophet, that you should put him in the stocks and in shackles.
\v 27 Now therefore, why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth, who makes himself a prophet to you,
\v 28 forasmuch as he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, The
captivity is long: build you houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them?
\v 29 And Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears of Jeremiah the prophet.
\v 30 Then came the word of Jehovah to Jeremiah, saying,
\v 31 Send to all them of the captivity, saying, Thus says Jehovah concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite: Because that Shemaiah
has prophesied to you, and I sent him not, and he has caused you to trust in a lie;
\v 32 therefore thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his seed; he shall not have a man to
dwell among this people, neither shall he behold the good that I will do to my people, says Jehovah, because he has spoken
rebellion against Jehovah.