\c 30
\p
\v 1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
\v 2 Thus speaks Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Write you all the words that I have spoken to you in a book.
\v 3 For, lo, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will turn again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, says Jehovah;
and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it.
\p
\v 4 And these are the words that Jehovah spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah.
\v 5 For thus says Jehovah: We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace.
\v 6 Ask you now, and see whether a man does travail with child: wherefore do I see every man with his hands on his loins, as a
woman in travail, and all faces are turned into paleness?
\v 7 Alas! for that day is great, so that none is like it: it is even the time of Jacob’s trouble; but he shall be saved out of
it.
\v 8 And it shall come to pass in that day, says Jehovah of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off your neck, and will
burst your bonds; and strangers shall no more make him their bondman;
\v 9 but they shall serve Jehovah their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up to them.
\v 10 Therefore fear you not, O Jacob my servant, says Jehovah; neither be dismayed, O Israel: for, lo, I will save you from
afar, and your seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, and none shall
make him afraid.
\v 11 For I am with thee, says Jehovah, to save thee: for I will make a full end of all the nations whither I have scattered
you, but I will not make a full end of you; but I will correct you in measure, and will in no wise leave you unpunished.
\v 12 For thus says Jehovah, Your hurt is incurable, and your wound grievous.
\v 13 There is none to plead your cause, that you may be bound up: you have no healing medicines.
\v 14 All your lovers have forgotten you; they seek you not: for I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy, with the
chastisement of a cruel one, for the greatness of your iniquity, because your sins were increased.
\v 15 Why crie you for your hurt? your pain is incurable: for the greatness of your iniquity, because your sins were
increased, I have done these things to thee.
\v 16 Therefore all they that devour you shall be devoured; and all your adversaries, every one of them, shall go into
captivity; and they that despoil you shall be a spoil, and all that prey upon you will I give for a prey.
\v 17 For I will restore health to you, and I will heal you of your wounds, says Jehovah; because they have called you an
outcast, saying, It is Zion, whom no man seeks after.
\p
\v 18 Thus says Jehovah: Behold, I will turn again the captivity of Jacob’s tents, and have compassion on his dwelling-places;
and the city shall be builded upon its own hill, and the palace shall be inhabited after its own manner.
\v 19 And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them that make merry: and I will multiply them, and they
shall not be few; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.
\v 20 Their children also shall be as aforetime, and their congregation shall be established before me; and I will punish all
that oppress them.
\v 21 And their prince shall be of themselves, and their ruler shall proceed from the midst of them; and I will cause him to
draw near, and he shall approach to me: for who is he that has had boldness to approach to me? says Jehovah.
\v 22 And you shall be my people, and I will be your God.
\p
\v 23 Behold, the tempest of Jehovah, even his wrath, is gone forth, a sweeping tempest: it shall burst upon the head
of the wicked.
\v 24 The fierce anger of Jehovah shall not return, until he have executed, and till he have performed the intents of his
heart: in the latter days you shall understand it.