\c 31
\p
\v 1 At that time, says Jehovah, will I be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people.
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah, The people that were left of the sword found favor in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to
cause him to rest.
\v 3 Jehovah appeared of old to me, saying, Yea, I have loved you with an everlasting love: therefore with
lovingkindness have I drawn thee.
\v 4 Again will I build thee, and you shall be built, O virgin of Israel: again shall you be adorned with your tabrets, and
shall go forth in the dances of them that make merry.
\v 5 Again shall you plant vineyards upon the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant, and shall enjoy
the fruit thereof.
\v 6 For there shall be a day, that the watchmen upon the hills of Ephraim shall cry, Arise ye, and let us go up to Zion to
Jehovah our God.
\p
\v 7 For thus says Jehovah, Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout for the chief of the nations: publish ye, praise ye, and
say, O Jehovah, save your people, the remnant of Israel.
\v 8 Behold, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the uttermost parts of the earth,
and with them the blind and the lame, the woman with child and her that suffers with child together: a great
company shall they return hither.
\v 9 They shall come with weeping; and with supplications will I lead them: I will cause them to walk by rivers of waters, in a
straight way wherein they shall not stumble; for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first-born.
\p
\v 10 Hear the word of Jehovah, O you nations, and declare it in the isles afar off; and say, He that scattered Israel will
gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd does his flock.
\v 11 For Jehovah has ransomed Jacob, and redeemed him from the hand of him that was stronger than he.
\v 12 And they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall flow to the goodness of Jehovah, to the grain, and to the
new wine, and to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd: and their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they
shall not sorrow any more at all.
\v 13 Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, and the young men and the old together; for I will turn their mourning into
joy, and will comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.
\v 14 And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, says
Jehovah.
\p
\v 15 Thus says Jehovah: A voice is heard in Ramah, lamentation, and bitter weeping, Rachel weeping for her children; she
refuseth to be comforted for her children, because they are not.
\v 16 Thus says Jehovah: Refrain your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears; for your work shall be rewarded, says
Jehovah; and they shall come again from the land of the enemy.
\v 17 And there is hope for your latter end, says Jehovah; and your
children shall come again to their own border.
\v 18 I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus, You have chaveised me, and I was chaveised, as a calf
unaccustomed to the yoke: turn you me, and I shall be turned; for you are Jehovah my God.
\v 19 Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after that I was instructed, I struck upon my thigh: I was ashamed, yea,
even confounded, because I did bear the reproach of my youth.
\v 20 Is Ephraim my dear son? is he a darling child? for as often as I speak against him, I do earnestly remember him still:
therefore my heart yearneth for him; I will surely have mercy upon him, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 21 Set you up waymarks, make you guide-posts; set your heart toward the highway, even the way by which you wentest: turn
again, O virgin of Israel, turn again to these your cities.
\v 22 How long will you go hither and thither, O you backsliding daughter? for Jehovah has created a new thing in the earth:
a woman shall encompass a man.
\p
\v 23 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, Yet again shall they use this speech in the land of Judah and in the
cities thereof, when I shall bring again their captivity: Jehovah bless thee, O habitation of righteousness, O mountain of
holiness.
\v 24 And Judah and all the cities thereof shall dwell therein together, the husbandmen, and they that go about with flocks.
\v 25 For I have satiated the weary soul, and every sorrowful soul have I replenished.
\v 26 Upon this I awaked, and beheld; and my sleep was sweet to me.
\p
\v 27 Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man,
and with the seed of beast.
\v 28 And it shall come to pass that, like as I have watched over them to pluck up and to break down and to overthrow and to
destroy and to afflict, so will I watch over them to build and to plant, says Jehovah.
\v 29 In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on edge.
\v 30 But every one shall die for his own iniquity: every man that eats the sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.
\p
\v 31 Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of
Judah:
\v 32 not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of
the land of Egypt; which my covenant they brake, although I was a husband to them, says Jehovah.
\v 33 But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says Jehovah: I will put my law in
their inward parts, and in their heart will I write it; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
\v 34 And they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for they shall all
know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, says Jehovah: for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin will
I remember no more.
\p
\v 35 Thus says Jehovah, who gives the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by
night, who stirreth up the sea, so that the waves thereof roar; Jehovah of hosts is his name:
\v 36 If these ordinances depart from before me, says Jehovah, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation
before me for ever.
\v 37 Thus says Jehovah: If heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, then will I
also cast off all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 38 Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that the city shall be built to Jehovah from the tower of Hananel to the gate of
the corner.
\v 39 And the measuring line shall go out further straight onward to the hill Gareb, and shall turn about to Goah.
\v 40 And the whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields to the brook Kidron, to the corner of
the horse gate toward the east, shall be holy to Jehovah; it shall not be plucked up, nor thrown down any more for ever.