\c 32
\p
\v 1 The word that came to Jeremiah from Jehovah in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of
Nebuchadrezzar.
\v 2 Now at that time the king of Babylon’s army was besieging Jerusalem; and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of
the guard, which was in the king of Judah’s house.
\v 3 For Zedekiah king of Judah had shut him up, saying, Wherefore do you prophesy, and say, Thus says Jehovah, Behold, I
will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it;
\v 4 and Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand
of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes shall behold his eyes;
\v 5 and he shall bring Zedekiah to Babylon, and there shall he be until I visit him, says Jehovah: though you fight with the
Chaldeans, you shall not prosper?
\p
\v 6 And Jeremiah said, The word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 7 Behold, Hanamel the son of Shallum your uncle shall come to you, saying, Buy you my field that is in Anathoth; for
the right of redemption is your to buy it.
\v 8 So Hanamel mine uncle’s son came to me in the court of the guard according to the word of Jehovah, and said to me, Buy
my field, I pray thee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the land of Benjamin; for the right of inheritance is thine, and the
redemption is thine; buy it for thyself. Then I knew that this was the word of Jehovah.
\v 9 And I bought the field that was in Anathoth of Hanamel mine uncle’s son, and weighed him the money, even seventeen shekels
of silver.
\v 10 And I subscribed the deed, and sealed it, and called witnesses, and weighed him the money in the balances.
\v 11 So I took the deed of the purchase, both that which was sealed,
according to the law and custom, and that which was open:
\v 12 and I delivered the deed of the purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, in the presence of Hanamel
mine uncle’s son, and in the presence of the witnesses that subscribed the deed of the purchase, before all the Jews
that sat in the court of the guard.
\v 13 And I charged Baruch before them, saying,
\v 14 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Take these deeds, this deed of the purchase which is sealed, and this
deed which is open, and put them in an earthen vessel; that they may continue many days.
\v 15 For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards shall yet again be bought in this
land.
\p
\v 16 Now after I had delivered the deed of the purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed to Jehovah, saying,
\v 17 Ah Lord Jehovah! behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm; there
is nothing too hard for thee,
\v 18 who showest lovingkindness to thousands, and recompensest the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children
after them; the great, the mighty God, Jehovah of hosts is his name;
\v 19 great in counsel, and mighty in work; whose eyes are open upon all the ways of the sons of men, to give every one
according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings;
\v 20 who did set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, even to this day, both in Israel and among
other men; and made you a name, as at this day;
\v 21 and did bring forth your people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs, and with wonders, and with a strong hand,
and with an outstretched arm, and with great terror;
\v 22 and gave them this land, which you did swear to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey;
\v 23 and they came in, and possessed it; but they obeyed not your voice, neither walked in your law; they have done nothing of
all that you commanded them to do: therefore you have caused all this evil to come upon them.
\v 24 Behold, the mounds, they are come to the city to take it; and the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans that
fight against it, because of the sword, and of the famine, and of the pestilence; and what you have spoken is come to pass;
and, behold, you see it.
\v 25 And you have said to me, O Lord Jehovah, Buy you the field for money, and call witnesses; whereas the city is given
into the hand of the Chaldeans.
\p
\v 26 Then came the word of Jehovah to Jeremiah, saying,
\v 27 Behold, I am Jehovah, the God of all flesh: is there anything too hard for me?
\v 28 Therefore thus says Jehovah: Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall take it:
\v 29 and the Chaldeans, that fight against this city, shall come and set this city on fire, and burn it, with the houses, upon
whose roofs they have offered incense to Baal, and poured out drink-offerings to other gods, to provoke me to anger.
\v 30 For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done only that which was evil in my sight from their youth; for
the children of Israel have only provoked me to anger with the work of their hands, says Jehovah.
\v 31 For this city has been to me a provocation of mine anger and of my wrath from the day that they built it even to this
day; that I should remove it from before my face,
\v 32 because of all the evil of the children of Israel and of the children of Judah, which they have done to provoke me to
anger, they, their kings, their princes, their priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.
\v 33 And they have turned to me the back, and not the face: and though I taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet
they have not listened to receive instruction.
\v 34 But they set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it.
\v 35 And they built the high places of Baal, which are in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their
daughters to pass through the fire to Molech; which I commanded them not, neither came it into my mind, that they
should do this abomination, to cause Judah to sin.
\p
\v 36 And now therefore thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, concerning this city, whereof you say, It is given into the hand
of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence:
\v 37 Behold, I will gather them out of all the countries, whither I have driven them in mine anger, and in my wrath, and in
great indignation; and I will bring them again to this place, and I will cause them to dwell safely.
\v 38 And they shall be my people, and I will be their God:
\v 39 and I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me for ever, for the good of them, and of their children
after them:
\v 40 and I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from following them, to do them good; and I
will put my fear in their hearts, that they may not depart from me.
\v 41 Yea, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with
my whole soul.
\v 42 For thus says Jehovah: Like as I have brought all this great evil upon this people, so will I bring upon them all the
good that I have promised them.
\v 43 And fields shall be bought in this land, whereof you say, It is desolate, without man or beast; it is given into the hand
of the Chaldeans.
\v 44 Men shall buy fields for money, and subscribe the deeds, and seal them, and call witnesses, in the land of Benjamin, and
in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the hill-country, and in the cities of the
lowland, and in the cities of the South: for I will cause their captivity to return, says Jehovah.