\c 33
\p
\v 1 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah the second time, while he was yet shut up in the court of the guard,
saying,
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah that does it, Jehovah that formeth it to establish it; Jehovah is his name:
\v 3 Call to me, and I will answer you, and will show you great things, and difficult, which you know not.
\v 4 For thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of
Judah, which are broken down to make a defence against the mounds and against the sword;
\v 5 while men come to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have slain in
mine anger and in my wrath, and for all whose wickedness I have hid my face from this city:
\v 6 Behold, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them; and I will reveal to them abundance of peace and truth.
\v 7 And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will build them, as at the first.
\v 8 And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, whereby they have sinned against me; and I will pardon all their
iniquities, whereby they have sinned against me, and whereby they have transgressed against me.
\v 9 And this city shall be to me for a name of joy, for a praise and for a glory, before all the nations of the
earth, which shall hear all the good that I do to them, and shall fear and tremble for all the good and for all the peace
that I procure to it.
\p
\v 10 Thus says Jehovah: Yet again there shall be heard in this place, whereof you say, It is waste, without man and without
beast, even in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, that are desolate, without man and without inhabitant and
without beast,
\v 11 the voice of joy and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voice of them
that say, Give thanks to Jehovah of hosts, for Jehovah is good, for his lovingkindness
endures for ever; and of them that bring sacrifices of
thanksgiving into the house of Jehovah. For I will cause the captivity of the land to return as at the first, says
Jehovah.
\p
\v 12 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Yet again shall there be in this place, which is waste, without man and without beast, and
in all the cities thereof, a habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down.
\v 13 In the cities of the hill-country, in the cities of the lowland, and in the cities of the South, and in the land of
Benjamin, and in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, shall the flocks again pass under the hands of him
that numbereth them, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 14 Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will perform that good word which I have spoken concerning the house of
Israel and concerning the house of Judah.
\v 15 In those days, and at that time, will I cause a Branch of righteousness to grow up to David; and he shall execute
justice and righteousness in the land.
\v 16 In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is
the name whereby she shall be called: Jehovah our righteousness.
\v 17 For thus says Jehovah: David shall never lack a man to sit upon the throne of the house of Israel;
\v 18 neither shall the priests the Levites lack a man before me to offer burnt-offerings, and to burn meal-offerings, and to
do sacrifice continually.
\p
\v 19 And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
\v 20 Thus says Jehovah: If you can break my covenant of the day, and my covenant of the night, so that there shall not be day
and night in their season;
\v 21 then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant, that he shall not have a son to reign upon his throne; and
with the Levites the priests, my ministers.
\v 22 As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of the sea measured; so will I multiply the seed of David my
servant, and the Levites that minister to me.
\p
\v 23 And the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, saying,
\v 24 Considerest you not what this people have spoken, saying, The two families which Jehovah did choose, he has cast them
off? thus do they despise my people, that they should be no more a nation before them.
\v 25 Thus says Jehovah: If my covenant of day and night stand
not, if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth;
\v 26 then will I also cast away the seed of Jacob, and of David my servant, so that I will not take of his seed to be rulers
over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and will have mercy on them.