\c 36
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, that this word came to Jeremiah
from Jehovah, saying,
\v 2 Take you a roll of a book, and write therein all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel, and against
Judah, and against all the nations, from the day I spoke to thee, from the days of Josiah, even to this day.
\v 3 It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do to them; that they may return every man
from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.
\p
\v 4 Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah; and Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of Jehovah, which
he had spoken to him, upon a roll of a book.
\v 5 And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up; I cannot go into the house of Jehovah:
\v 6 therefore go you, and read in the roll, which you have written from my mouth, the words of Jehovah in the ears of the
people in Jehovah’s house upon the fast-day; and also you shall read them in the ears of all Judah that come out of their
cities.
\v 7 It may be they will present their supplication before Jehovah, and will return every one from his evil way; for great is
the anger and the wrath that Jehovah has pronounced against this people.
\v 8 And Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words
of Jehovah in Jehovah’s house.
\p
\v 9 Now it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, that all the
people in Jerusalem, and all the people that came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem, proclaimed a fast before Jehovah.
\v 10 Then read Baruch in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of Jehovah, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan
the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the new gate of Jehovah’s house, in the ears of all the people.
\p
\v 11 And when Micaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard out of the book all the words of Jehovah,
\v 12 he went down into the king’s house, into the scribe’s chamber: and, lo, all the princes were sitting there,
to wit, Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of
Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.
\v 13 Then Micaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.
\v 14 Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying,
Take in your hand the roll wherein you have read in the ears of the people, and come. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll
in his hand, and came to them.
\v 15 And they said to him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears. So Baruch read it in their ears.
\v 16 Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, they turned in fear one toward another, and said to Baruch, We
will surely tell the king of all these words.
\v 17 And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, How did you write all these words at his mouth?
\v 18 Then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these words to me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book.
\v 19 Then said the princes to Baruch, Go, hide thee, you and Jeremiah; and let no man know where you are.
\p
\v 20 And they went in to the king into the court; but they had laid up the roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe; and
they told all the words in the ears of the king.
\v 21 So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the roll; and he took it out of the chamber of Elishama the scribe. And Jehudi read it
in the ears of the king, and in the ears of all the princes that stood beside the king.
\v 22 Now the king was sitting in the winter-house in the ninth month: and
there was a fire in the brazier burning before him.
\v 23 And it came to pass, when Jehudi had read three or four leaves, that
the king cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the roll was consumed
in the fire that was in the brazier.
\v 24 And they were not afraid, nor tore their garments, neither the king, nor any of his servants that heard all these words.
\v 25 Moreover Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had made intercession to the king that he would not burn the roll; but he
would not hear them.
\v 26 And the king commanded Jerahmeel the king’s son, and Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to take
Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet; but Jehovah hid them.
\p
\v 27 Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah, after that the king had burned the roll, and the words which Baruch wrote at
the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,
\v 28 Take you again another roll, and write in it all the former words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim the king
of Judah has burned.
\v 29 And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah you shall say, Thus says Jehovah: You have burned this roll, saying, Why have
you written therein, saying, The king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy this land, and shall cause to cease from
thence man and beast?
\v 30 Therefore thus says Jehovah concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David; and
his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.
\v 31 And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity; and I will bring upon them, and upon the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them, but they listened not.
\v 32 Then took Jeremiah another roll, and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote therein from the mouth of
Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire; and there were added besides to them
many like words.