\c 38
\p
\v 1 And Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of
Malchijah, heard the words that Jeremiah spoke to all the people, saying,
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah, He that remains in this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he that
goes forth to the Chaldeans shall live, and his life shall be to him for a prey, and he shall live.
\v 3 Thus says Jehovah, This city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon, and he shall take
it.
\v 4 Then the princes said to the king, Let this man, we pray thee, be put to death; forasmuch as he weakeneth the hands of
the men of war that remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, in speaking such words to them: for this man
seeks not the welfare of this people, but the hurt.
\v 5 And Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand; for the king is not he that can do anything against you.
\v 6 Then took they Jeremiah, and cast him into the dungeon of Malchijah the king’s son, that was in the court of the guard:
and they let down Jeremiah with cords. And in the dungeon there was no water, but mire; and Jeremiah sank in the mire.
\p
\v 7 Now when Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, a eunuch, who was in the king’s house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon
(the king then sitting in the gate of Benjamin),
\v 8 Ebed-melech went forth out of the king’s house, and spoke to the king, saying,
\v 9 My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet, whom they have cast into
the dungeon; and he is like to die in the place where he is, because of the famine; for there is no more bread in the city.
\v 10 Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, Take from hence thirty men with thee, and take up Jeremiah the
prophet out of the dungeon, before he die.
\v 11 So Ebed-melech took the men with him, and went into the house of the king under the treasury, and took thence rags and
worn-out garments, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.
\v 12 And Ebed-melech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, Put now these rags and worn-out garments under your armholes under the
cords. And Jeremiah did so.
\v 13 So they drew up Jeremiah with the cords, and took him up out of the dungeon: and Jeremiah remained in the court of the
guard.
\p
\v 14 Then Zedekiah the king sent, and took Jeremiah the prophet to him into the third entry that is in the house of Jehovah:
and the king said to Jeremiah, I will ask you a thing; hide nothing from me.
\v 15 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, If I declare it to you, will you not surely put me to death? and if I give you
counsel, you will not listen to me.
\v 16 So Zedekiah the king sware secretly to Jeremiah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, that made us this soul, I will not put you
to death, neither will I give you into the hand of these men that seek your life.
\p
\v 17 Then said Jeremiah to Zedekiah, Thus says Jehovah, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: If you will go forth to the
king of Babylon’s princes, then your soul shall live, and this city shall not be burned with fire; and you shall live, and your
house.
\v 18 But if you will not go forth to the king of Babylon’s princes, then shall this city be given into the hand of the
Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape out of their hand.
\v 19 And Zedekiah the king said to Jeremiah, I am afraid of the Jews that are fallen away to the Chaldeans, lest they
deliver me into their hand, and they mock me.
\v 20 But Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver thee. Obey, I beseech thee, the voice of Jehovah, in that which I speak to
thee: so it shall be well with thee, and your soul shall live.
\v 21 But if you refuse to go forth, this is the word that Jehovah has showed me:
\v 22 behold, all the women that are left in the king of Judah’s house shall be brought forth to the king of Babylon’s princes,
and those women shall say, Your familiar friends have set you on, and have prevailed over you:
now that your feet are sunk in the mire, they are turned away back.
\v 23 And they shall bring out all your wives and your children to the Chaldeans; and you shall not escape out of their hand,
but shall be taken by the hand of the king of Babylon: and you shall cause this city to be burned with fire.
\p
\v 24 Then said Zedekiah to Jeremiah, Let no man know of these words, and you shall not die.
\v 25 But if the princes hear that I have talked with thee, and they come to thee, and say to thee, Declare to us now
what you have said to the king; hide it not from us, and we will not put you to death; also what the king said to you:
\v 26 then you shall say to them, I presented my supplication before the king, that he would not cause me to return to
Jonathan’s house, to die there.
\v 27 Then came all the princes to Jeremiah, and asked him; and he told them according to all these words that the king had
commanded. So they left off speaking with him; for the matter was not perceived.
\v 28 So Jeremiah abode in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken.
\p And it came to pass when Jerusalem was taken