\c 40
\p
\v 1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Jehovah, after that Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah,
when he had taken him being bound in chains among all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah, that were carried away captive to
Babylon.
\v 2 And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah, and said to him, Jehovah your God pronounced this evil upon this place;
\v 3 and Jehovah has brought it, and done according as he spake: because you have sinned against Jehovah, and have not obeyoud
his voice, therefore this thing is come upon you.
\v 4 And now, behold, I loose you this day from the chains which are upon your hand. If it seem good to you to come with me
into Babylon, come, and I will look well to you; but if it seem ill to you to come with me into Babylon, forbear: behold,
all the land is before you; whither it seems good and right to you to go, there go.
\v 5 Now while he was not yet gone back, Go back then, said
he, to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has made governor over the cities of
Judah, and dwell with him among the people; or go wherever it seems right to you to go. So the captain of the guard
gave him food and a present, and let him go.
\v 6 Then went Jeremiah to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah, and lived with him among the people that were left in the
land.
\p
\v 7 Now when all the captains of the forces that were in the fields, even they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon
had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed to him men, and women, and children, and of the
poorest of the land, of them that were not carried away captive to Babylon;
\v 8 then they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, to wit, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan and Jonathan the sons of
Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, they
and their men.
\v 9 And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan sware to them and to their men, saying, Fear not to serve the
Chaldeans: dwell in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.
\v 10 As for me, behold, I will dwell at Mizpah, to stand before the Chaldeans that shall come to us: but you, gather you wine
and summer fruits and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that you have taken.
\v 11 Likewise when all the Jews that were in Moab, and among the children of Ammon, and in Edom, and that were in all the
countries, heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of
Ahikam, the son of Shaphan;
\v 12 then all the Jews returned out of all places whither they were driven, and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah, to
Mizpah, and gathered wine and summer fruits very much.
\p
\v 13 Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were in the fields, came to Gedaliah to
Mizpah,
\v 14 and said to him, Do you know that Baalis the king of the children of Ammon has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to
take your life? But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam believed them not.
\v 15 Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke to Gedaliah in Mizpah secretly, saying, Let me go, I pray thee, and I will kill
Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no man shall know it: wherefore should he take your life, that all the Jews that are gathered
to you should be scattered, and the remnant of Judah perish?
\v 16 But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, You shall not do this thing; for you speak
falsely of Ishmael.