\c 44
\p
\v 1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews that lived in the land of Egypt, that lived at Migdol, and at
Tahpanhes, and at Memphis, and in the country of Pathros, saying,
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: You have seen all the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, and upon all
the cities of Judah; and, behold, this day they are a desolation, and no man lives therein,
\v 3 because of their wickedness which they have committed to provoke me to anger, in that they went to burn incense,
and to serve other gods, that they knew not, neither they, nor ye, nor your fathers.
\v 4 Howbeit I sent to you all my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Oh, do not this abominable
thing that I hate.
\v 5 But they listened not, nor inclined their ear to turn from their wickedness, to burn no incense to other gods.
\v 6 Wherefore my wrath and mine anger was poured forth, and was kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of
Jerusalem; and they are wasted and desolate, as it is this day.
\v 7 Therefore now thus says Jehovah, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: Wherefore commit you
this great evil against your own souls, to cut off from you man and woman, infant and suckling, out of the midst of
Judah, to leave you none remaining;
\v 8 in that you provoke me to anger with the works of your hands, burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt,
whither you are gone to sojourn; that you may be cut off, and that you may be a curse and a reproach among all the nations of the
earth?
\v 9 Have you forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, and the wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness of their
wives, and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives, which they committed in the land of Judah, and in the streets
of Jerusalem?
\v 10 They are not humbled even to this day, neither have they feared, nor walked in my law, nor in my statutes, that I set
before you and before your fathers.
\p
\v 11 Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set my face against you for evil, even to cut
off all Judah.
\v 12 And I will take the remnant of Judah, that have set their faces to go into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, and they
shall all be consumed; in the land of Egypt shall they fall; they shall be consumed by the sword and by the famine; they shall
die, from the least even to the greatest, by the sword and by the famine; and they shall be an execration,
and an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach.
\v 13 For I will punish them that dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, by the sword, by the famine, and by
the pestilence;
\v 14 so that none of the remnant of Judah, that are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall escape or be left, to
return into the land of Judah, to which they have a desire to return to dwell there: for none shall return save such as shall
escape.
\p
\v 15 Then all the men who knew that their wives burned incense to other gods, and all the women that stood by, a great
assembly, even all the people that lived in the land of Egypt, in Pathros, answered Jeremiah, saying,
\v 16 As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of Jehovah, we will not listen to thee.
\v 17 But we will certainly perform every word that is gone forth out of our mouth, to burn incense to the queen of heaven,
and to pour out drink-offerings to her, as we have done, we and our fathers, our kings and our princes, in the cities of
Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem; for then had we plenty of victuals, and were well, and saw no evil.
\v 18 But since we left off burning incense to the queen of heaven, and pouring out drink-offerings to her, we have wanted
all things, and have been consumed by the sword and by the famine.
\v 19 And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven, and poured out drink-offerings to her, did we make her cakes to
worship her, and pour out drink-offerings to her, without our husbands?
\p
\v 20 Then Jeremiah said to all the people, to the men, and to the women, even to all the people that had given him that
answer, saying,
\v 21 The incense that you burned in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, you and your fathers, your kings and
your princes, and the people of the land, did not Jehovah remember them, and came it not into his mind?
\v 22 so that Jehovah could not longer bear, because of the evil of your doings, and because of the abominations which you have
committed; therefore is your land become a desolation, and an astonishment, and a curse, without inhabitant, as it is this day.
\v 23 Because you have burned incense, and because you have sinned against Jehovah, and have not obeyoud the voice of Jehovah, nor
walked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies; therefore this evil is happened to you, as it is this day.
\p
\v 24 Moreover Jeremiah said to all the people, and to all the women, Hear the word of Jehovah, all Judah that are in the
land of Egypt:
\v 25 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, You and your wives have both spoken with your mouths, and with
your hands have fulfilled it, saying, We will surely perform our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the queen of
heaven, and to pour out drink-offerings to her: establish then your vows, and perform your vows.
\v 26 Therefore hear you the word of Jehovah, all Judah that dwell in the land of Egypt: Behold, I have sworn by my great name,
says Jehovah, that my name shall no more be named in the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, As the
Lord Jehovah liveth.
\v 27 Behold, I watch over them for evil, and not for good; and all the men of Judah that are in the land of Egypt shall be
consumed by the sword and by the famine, until there be an end of them.
\v 28 And they that escape the sword shall return out of the land of Egypt into the land of Judah, few in number; and all the
remnant of Judah, that are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall know whose word shall stand, mine, or theirs.
\v 29 And this shall be the sign to you, says Jehovah, that I will punish you in this place, that you may know that my words
shall surely stand against you for evil:
\v 30 Thus says Jehovah, Behold, I will give Pharaoh Hophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of
them that seek his life; as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, who was his enemy,
and sought his life.