\c 46
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah which came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations.
\p
\v 2 Of Egypt: concerning the army of Pharaoh-neco king of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates in Carchemish, which
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon struck in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah.
\v 3 Prepare you the buckler and shield, and draw near to battle.
\v 4 Harness the horses, and get up, you horsemen, and stand forth with your helmets; furbish the spears, put on the coats of
mail.
\v 5 Wherefore have I seen it? they are dismayed and are turned backward; and their mighty ones are beaten down, and are fled
apace, and look not back: terror is on every side, says Jehovah.
\v 6 Let not the swift flee away, nor the mighty man escape; in the north by the river Euphrates have they stumbled and fallen.
\v 7 Who is this that rises up like the Nile, whose waters toss themselves like the rivers?
\v 8 Egypt rises up like the Nile, and his waters toss themselves like the rivers: and he saith, I will rise up, I will cover
the earth; I will destroy cities and the inhabitants thereof.
\v 9 Go up, you horses; and rage, you chariots; and let the mighty men go forth: Cush and Put, that handle the shield; and the
Ludim, that handle and bend the bow.
\v 10 For that day is a day of the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, a day of vengeance, that he may avenge him of his
adversaries: and the sword shall devour and be satiate, and shall drink its fill of their blood; for the Lord, Jehovah of
hosts, has a sacrifice in the north country by the river Euphrates.
\v 11 Go up into Gilead, and take balm, O virgin daughter of Egypt: in vain do you use many medicines; there is no healing
for thee.
\v 12 The nations have heard of your shame, and the earth is full of your cry; for the mighty man has stumbled against the
mighty, they are fallen both of them together.
\p
\v 13 The word that Jehovah spoke to Jeremiah the prophet, how that Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon should come and strike the
land of Egypt.
\p
\v 14 Declare you in Egypt, and publish in Migdol, and publish in Memphis and in Tahpanhes: say you, Stand forth, and prepare
thee; for the sword has devoured round about thee.
\v 15 Why are your strong ones swept away? they stood not, because Jehovah did drive them.
\v 16 He made many to stumble, yea, they fell one upon another: and they said, Arise, and let us go again to our own people,
and to the land of our nativity, from the oppressing sword.
\v 17 They cried there, Pharaoh king of Egypt is but a noise; he has let the appointed time pass by.
\v 18 As I live, says the King, whose name is Jehovah of hosts, surely like Tabor among the mountains, and like Carmel by the
sea, so shall he come.
\v 19 O you daughter that live in Egypt, furnish yourself to go into captivity; for Memphis shall become a desolation, and
shall be burnt up, without inhabitant.
\v 20 Egypt is a very fair heifer; but destruction out of the north is come, it is come.
\v 21 Also her hired men in the midst of her are like calves of the stall; for they also are turned back, they are fled away
together, they did not stand: for the day of their calamity is come upon them, the time of their visitation.
\v 22 The sound thereof shall go like the serpent; for they shall march with an army, and come against her with axes, as hewers
of wood.
\v 23 They shall cut down her forest, says Jehovah, though it cannot be searched; because they are more than the locusts, and
are innumerable.
\v 24 The daughter of Egypt shall be put to shame; she shall be delivered into the hand of the people of the north.
\v 25 Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, saith: Behold, I will punish Amon of No, and Pharaoh, and Egypt, with her gods, and
her kings; even Pharaoh, and them that trust in him:
\v 26 and I will deliver them into the hand of those that seek their lives, and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of
Babylon, and into the hand of his servants; and afterwards it shall be inhabited, as in the days of old, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 27 But fear not thou, O Jacob my servant, neither be dismayed, O Israel: for, lo, I will save you from afar, and your seed
from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be quiet and at ease, and none shall make him afraid.
\v 28 Fear not thou, O Jacob my servant, says Jehovah; for I am with thee: for I will make a full end of all the nations
whither I have driven you; but I will not make a full end of you, but I will correct you in measure, and will in no wise
leave you unpunished.