\c 49
\p
\v 1 Of the children of Ammon. Thus says Jehovah: Hath Israel no sons? has he no heir? why then does Malcam possess Gad, and
his people dwell in the cities thereof?
\v 2 Therefore, behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the
children of Ammon; and it shall become a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire: then shall Israel possess
them that did possess him, says Jehovah.
\v 3 Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste; cry, you daughters of Rabbah, gird you with sackcloth: lament, and run to and fro
among the fences; for Malcam shall go into captivity, his priests and his princes together.
\v 4 Wherefore gloriest you in the valleys, your flowing valley, O backsliding daughter? that trusted in her treasures,
saying, Who shall come to me?
\v 5 Behold, I will bring a fear upon thee, says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, from all that are round about thee; and you shall
be driven out every man right forth, and there shall be none to gather together the fugitives.
\v 6 But afterward I will bring back the captivity of the children of Ammon, says Jehovah.
\b
\p
\v 7 Of Edom. Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Is wisdom no more in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is their wisdom
vanished?
\v 8 Flee ye, turn back, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Dedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time
that I shall visit him.
\v 9 If grape gatherers came to thee, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? if thieves by night, would they not destroy
till they had enough?
\v 10 But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is
destroyed, and his brethren, and his neighbors; and he is not.
\v 11 Leave your fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; and let your widows trust in me.
\v 12 For thus says Jehovah: Behold, they to whom it pertained not to drink of the cup shall assuredly drink; and are you he
that shall altogether go unpunished? you shall not go unpunished, but you shall surely drink.
\v 13 For I have sworn by myself, says Jehovah, that Bozrah shall become an astonishment, a reproach, a waste, and a curse;
and all the cities thereof shall be perpetual wastes.
\p
\v 14 I have heard tidings from Jehovah, and an ambassador is sent among the nations,
saying, Gather yourselves together, and come against her, and rise up to the battle.
\v 15 For, behold, I have made you small among the nations, and despised among men.
\v 16 As for your terribleness, the pride of your heart has deceived thee, O you that live in the clefts of the rock, that
holdest the height of the hill: yough you should make your nest as high as the eagle, I will bring you down from thence,
says Jehovah.
\v 17 And Edom shall become an astonishment: every one that passes by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all the
plagues thereof.
\v 18 As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities thereof, says Jehovah, no man shall dwell there,
neither shall any son of man sojourn therein.
\v 19 Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation: for I will suddenly make
them run away from it; and whoso is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will appoint me a time? and
who is the shepherd that will stand before me?
\v 20 Therefore hear you the counsel of Jehovah, that he has taken against Edom; and his purposes, that he has purposed
against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely they shall drag them away,
even the little ones of the flock; surely he shall make their habitation desolate over them.
\v 21 The earth trembleth at the noise of their fall; there is a cry, the noise whereof is heard in the Red Sea.
\v 22 Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread out his wings against Bozrah: and the heart of the mighty men
of Edom at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.
\b
\p
\v 23 Of Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad; for they have heard evil tidings, they are melted away: there is sorrow on
the sea; it cannot be quiet.
\v 24 Damascus is waxed feeble, she turns herself to flee, and trembling has seized on her: anguish and sorrows have taken
hold of her, as of a woman in travail.
\v 25 How is the city of praise not forsaken, the city of my joy?
\v 26 Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, says
Jehovah of hosts.
\v 27 And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.
\p
\v 28 Of Kedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote.
\p Thus says Jehovah: Arise ye, go up to Kedar, and destroy the children of the east.
\v 29 Their tents and their flocks shall they take; they shall carry away for themselves their curtains, and all their vessels,
and their camels; and they shall cry to them, Terror on every side!
\v 30 Flee you, wander far off, dwell in the depths, O you inhabitants of Hazor, says Jehovah; for Nebuchadrezzar king of
Babylon has taken counsel against you, and has conceived a purpose against you.
\v 31 Arise, get you up to a nation that is at ease, that lives without care, says Jehovah; that have neither gates nor
bars, that dwell alone.
\v 32 And their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of their cattle a spoil: and I will scatter to all winds them that
have the corners of their hair cut off; and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, says Jehovah.
\v 33 And Hazor shall be a dwelling-place of jackals, a desolation for ever: no man shall dwell there, neither shall any son of
man sojourn therein.
\b
\p
\v 34 The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of
Judah, saying,
\v 35 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.
\v 36 And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds;
and there shall be no nation whither the outcasts of Elam shall not come.
\v 37 And I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, and before them that seek their life; and I will bring evil
upon them, even my fierce anger, says Jehovah; and I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them:
\v 38 and I will set my throne in Elam, and will destroy from thence king and princes, says Jehovah.
\v 39 But it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bring back the captivity of Elam, says Jehovah.