\c 50
\p
\v 1 The word that Jehovah spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Jeremiah the prophet.
\p
\v 2 Declare you among the nations and publish, and set up a standard; publish, and conceal not: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is
put to shame, Merodach is dismayed; her images are put to shame, her idols are dismayed.
\v 3 For out of the north there comes up a nation against her, which shall make her land desolate, and none shall dwell
therein: they are fled, they are gone, both man and beast.
\v 4 In those days, and in that time, says Jehovah, the children of Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah
together; they shall go on their way weeping, and shall seek Jehovah their God.
\v 5 They shall inquire concerning Zion with their faces thitherward,
saying, Come ye, and join yourselves to Jehovah in an everlasting covenant that shall not be forgotten.
\p
\v 6 My people have been lost sheep: their shepherds have caused them to go astray; they have turned them away on the
mountains; they have gone from mountain to hill; they have forgotten their resting-place.
\v 7 All that found them have devoured them; and their adversaries said, We are not guilty, because they have sinned against
Jehovah, the habitation of righteousness, even Jehovah, the hope of their fathers.
\v 8 Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as the he-goats before the flocks.
\v 9 For, lo, I will stir up and cause to come up against Babylon a company of great nations from the north country; and they
shall set themselves in array against her; from thence she shall be taken: their arrows shall be as of an expert mighty man;
none shall return in vain.
\v 10 And Chaldea shall be a prey: all that prey upon her shall be satisfied, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 Because you are glad, because you rejoice, O you that plunder my heritage, because you are wanton as a heifer that treadeth
out the grain, and neigh as strong horses;
\v 12 your mother shall be utterly put to shame; she that bare you shall be confounded: behold, she shall be the hindermost of
the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.
\v 13 Because of the wrath of Jehovah she shall not be inhabited, but she shall be wholly desolate: every one that goes by
Babylon shall be astonished, and hiss at all her plagues.
\v 14 Set yourselves in array against Babylon round about, all you that bend the bow; shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she
has sinned against Jehovah.
\v 15 Shout against her round about: she has submitted herself; her bulwarks are fallen, her walls are thrown down; for it is
the vengeance of Jehovah: take vengeance upon her; as she has done, do to her.
\v 16 Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the sickle in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword
they shall turn every one to his people, and they shall flee every one to his own land.
\p
\v 17 Israel is a hunted sheep; the lions have driven him away: first, the king of Assyria devoured him; and now at last
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon has broken his bones.
\v 18 Therefore thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon and his land, as I
have punished the king of Assyria.
\v 19 And I will bring Israel again to his pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied
upon the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead.
\v 20 In those days, and in that time, says Jehovah, the iniquity of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and
the sins of Judah, and they shall not be found: for I will pardon them whom I leave as a remnant.
\p
\v 21 Go up against the land of Merathaim, even against it, and against the inhabitants of Pekod: kill and utterly destroy
after them, says Jehovah, and do according to all that I have commanded thee.
\v 22 A sound of battle is in the land, and of great destruction.
\v 23 How is the hammer of the whole earth cut asunder and broken! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!
\v 24 I have laid a snare for thee, and you are also taken, O Babylon, and you was not aware: you are found, and also
caught, because you have striven against Jehovah.
\v 25 Jehovah has opened his armory, and has brought forth the weapons of his indignation; for the Lord, Jehovah of hosts,
has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans.
\v 26 Come against her from the utmost border; open her store-houses; cast her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly; let
nothing of her be left.
\v 27 Slay all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter: woe to them! for their day is come, the time of their
visitation.
\v 28 The voice of them that flee and escape out of the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of Jehovah our God,
the vengeance of his temple.
\p
\v 29 Call together the archers against Babylon, all them that bend the bow; encamp against her round about; let none thereof
escape: recompense her according to her work; according to all that she has done, do to her; for she has been proud against
Jehovah, against the Holy One of Israel.
\v 30 Therefore shall her young men fall in her streets, and all her men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, says
Jehovah.
\v 31 Behold, I am against thee, O you proud one, says the Lord, Jehovah of hosts; for your day is come, the time that I will
visit thee.
\v 32 And the proud one shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise him up; and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it
shall devour all that are round about him.
\p
\v 33 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: The children of Israel and the children of Judah are oppressed together; and all that took
them captive hold them fast; they refuse to let them go.
\v 34 Their Redeemer is strong; Jehovah of hosts is his name: he will thoroughly plead their cause, that he may give rest to
the earth, and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.
\v 35 A sword is upon the Chaldeans, says Jehovah, and upon the inhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes, and upon her
wise men.
\v 36 A sword is upon the boasters, and they shall become fools; a sword is upon her mighty men, and they shall be dismayed.
\v 37 A sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots, and upon all the mingled people that are in the midst of her; and
they shall become as women: a sword is upon her treasures, and they shall be robbed.
\v 38 A drought is upon her waters, and they shall be dried up; for it is a land of graven images, and they are mad over idols.
\v 39 Therefore the wild beasts of the desert with the wolves shall dwell there, and the ostriches shall dwell therein: and it
shall be no more inhabited for ever; neither shall it be lived in from generation to generation.
\v 40 As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities thereof, says Jehovah, so shall no man dwell there,
neither shall any son of man sojourn therein.
\p
\v 41 Behold, a people comes from the north; and a great nation and many kings shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of
the earth.
\v 42 They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon
horses, every one set in array, as a man to the battle, against thee, O daughter of Babylon.
\v 43 The king of Babylon has heard the tidings of them, and his hands wax feeble: anguish has taken hold of him,
and pangs as of a woman in travail.
\v 44 Behold, the enemy shall come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation: for I
will suddenly make them run away from it; and whoso is chosen, him will I appoint over it: for who is like me? and who will
appoint me a time? and who is the shepherd that can stand before me?
\v 45 Therefore hear you the counsel of Jehovah, that he has taken against Babylon; and his purposes, that he has purposed
against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely they shall drag them away,
even the little ones of the flock; surely he shall make their habitation desolate over them.
\v 46 At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth trembleth, and the cry is heard among the nations.