\c 51
\p
\v 1 Thus says Jehovah: Behold, I will raise up against Babylon, and against them that dwell in Leb-kamai, a destroying wind.
\v 2 And I will send to Babylon strangers, that shall winnow her; and they shall empty her land: for in the day of trouble
they shall be against her round about.
\v 3 Against him that bendeth let the archer bend his bow, and against
him that lifts himself up in his coat of mail: and spare you not her young men; destroy you utterly all her host.
\v 4 And they shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and thrust through in her streets.
\p
\v 5 For Israel is not forsaken, nor Judah, of his God, of Jehovah of hosts; though their land is full of guilt against the
Holy One of Israel.
\v 6 Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and save every man his life; be not cut off in her iniquity: for it is the time of
Jehovah’s vengeance; he will render to her a recompense.
\v 7 Babylon has been a golden cup in Jehovah’s hand, that made all the earth drunken: the nations have drunk of her wine;
therefore the nations are mad.
\v 8 Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed: wail for her; take balm for her pain, if so be she may be healed.
\v 9 We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed: forsake her, and let us go every one into his own country; for her
judgment reaches to heaven, and is lifted up even to the skies.
\v 10 Jehovah has brought forth our righteousness: come, and let us declare in Zion the work of Jehovah our God.
\p
\v 11 Make sharp the arrows; hold firm the shields: Jehovah has stirred up the spirit of the kings of the Medes; because his
purpose is against Babylon, to destroy it: for it is the vengeance of Jehovah, the vengeance of his temple.
\v 12 Set up a standard against the walls of Babylon, make the watch strong, set the watchmen, prepare the ambushes; for
Jehovah has both purposed and done that which he spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon.
\v 13 O you that live upon many waters, abundant in treasures, your end is come, the measure of your covetousness.
\v 14 Jehovah of hosts has sworn by himself, saying, Surely I will fill you with men, as with the canker-worm; and
they shall lift up a shout against thee.
\p
\v 15 He has made the earth by his power, he has established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding has he
stretched out the heavens.
\v 16 When he utters his voice, there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he causes the vapors to ascend from the ends
of the earth; he makes lightnings for the rain, and brings forth the wind out of his treasuries.
\v 17 Every man is become brutish and is without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his image; for his
molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.
\v 18 They are vanity, a work of delusion: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.
\v 19 The portion of Jacob is not like these; for he is the former of all things; and
Israel is the tribe of his inheritance: Jehovah of hosts is his name.
\p
\v 20 You are my battle-axe and weapons of war: and with you will I break in pieces the nations; and with you will I destroy
kingdoms;
\v 21 and with you will I break in pieces the horse and his rider;
\v 22 and with you will I break in pieces the chariot and him that rideth therein; and with you will I break in pieces man
and woman; and with you will I break in pieces the old man and the youth; and with you will I break in pieces the young man
and the virgin;
\v 23 and with you will I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; and with you will I break in pieces the husbandman and
his yoke of oxen; and with you will I break in pieces governors and deputies.
\v 24 And I will render to Babylon and to all the inhabitants of Chaldea all their evil that they have done in Zion in your
sight, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 25 Behold, I am against thee, O destroying mountain, says Jehovah, which destroy all the earth; and I will stretch out
my hand upon you, and roll you down from the rocks, and will make you a burnt mountain.
\v 26 And they shall not take of you a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations; but you shall be desolate for ever,
says Jehovah.
\p
\v 27 Set you up a standard in the land, blow the trumpet among the nations, prepare the nations against her, call together
against her the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashkenaz: appoint a marshal against her; cause the horses to come up as the
rough canker-worm.
\v 28 Prepare against her the nations, the kings of the Medes, the governors thereof, and all the deputies thereof, and all the
land of their dominion.
\v 29 And the land trembleth and is in pain; for the purposes of Jehovah against Babylon do stand, to make the land of Babylon
a desolation, without inhabitant.
\v 30 The mighty men of Babylon have forborne to fight, they remain in their strongholds; their might has failed; they are
become as women: her dwelling-places are set on fire; her bars are broken.
\v 31 One post shall run to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to show the king of Babylon that his city is taken
on every quarter:
\v 32 and the passages are seized, and the reeds they have burned with fire, and the men of war are affrighted.
\p
\v 33 For thus says Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel: The daughter of Babylon is like a threshing floor at the time when it
is trodden; yet a little while, and the time of harvest shall come for her.
\v 34 Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon has devoured me, he has crushed me, he has made me an empty vessel, he has, like a
monster, swallowed me up, he has filled his maw with my delicacies; he has cast me out.
\v 35 The violence done to me and to my flesh be upon Babylon, shall the inhabitant of Zion say; and, My blood be upon the
inhabitants of Chaldea, shall Jerusalem say.
\v 36 Therefore thus says Jehovah: Behold, I will plead your cause, and take vengeance for thee; and I will dry up her sea, and
make her fountain dry.
\v 37 And Babylon shall become heaps, a dwelling-place for jackals, an astonishment, and a hissing, without inhabitant.
\v 38 They shall roar together like young lions; they shall growl as lions’ whelps.
\v 39 When they are heated, I will make their feast, and I will make them drunken, that they may rejoice, and sleep a perpetual
sleep, and not wake, says Jehovah.
\v 40 I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams with he-goats.
\p
\v 41 How is Sheshach taken! and the praise of the whole earth seized! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!
\v 42 The sea is come up upon Babylon; she is covered with the multitude of the waves thereof.
\v 43 Her cities are become a desolation, a dry land, and a desert, a land wherein no man dwelleth, neither does any son of man
pass thereby.
\v 44 And I will execute judgment upon Bel in Babylon, and I will bring forth out of his mouth that which he has swallowed up;
and the nations shall not flow any more to him: yea, the wall of Babylon shall fall.
\p
\v 45 My people, go you out of the midst of her, and save yourselves every man from the fierce anger of Jehovah.
\v 46 And let not your heart faint, neither fear you for the tidings that shall be heard in the land; for tidings shall come one
year, and after that in another year shall come tidings, and violence in the land, ruler against ruler.
\v 47 Therefore, behold, the days come, that I will execute judgment upon the graven images of Babylon; and her whole land
shall be confounded; and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
\v 48 Then the heavens and the earth, and all that is therein, shall sing for joy over Babylon; for the destroyers shall come
to her from the north, says Jehovah.
\v 49 As Babylon has caused the slain of Israel to fall, so at Babylon shall fall the slain of all the land.
\p
\v 50 You that have escaped the sword, go ye, stand not still; remember Jehovah from afar, and let Jerusalem come into your
mind.
\v 51 We are confounded, because we have heard reproach; confusion has covered our faces: for strangers are come into the
sanctuaries of Jehovah’s house.
\v 52 Wherefore, behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that I will execute judgment upon her graven images; and through all her
land the wounded shall groan.
\v 53 Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify the height of her strength, yet from me shall
destroyers come to her, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 54 The sound of a cry from Babylon, and of great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans!
\v 55 For Jehovah lays Babylon waste, and destroys out of her the great voice; and their waves roar like many waters; the
noise of their voice is uttered:
\v 56 for the destroyer is come upon her, even upon Babylon, and her mighty men are taken, their bows are broken in pieces; for
Jehovah is a God of recompenses, he will surely requite.
\v 57 And I will make drunk her princes and her wise men, her governors and her deputies, and her mighty men; and they shall
sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake, says the King, whose name is Jehovah of hosts.
\v 58 Thus says Jehovah of hosts: The broad walls of Babylon shall be utterly overthrown, and her high gates shall be burned
with fire; and the peoples shall labor for vanity, and the nations for the fire; and they shall be weary.
\b
\p
\v 59 The word which Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, the son of Mahseiah, when he went with Zedekiah
the king of Judah to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. Now Seraiah was chief chamberlain.
\v 60 And Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that should come upon Babylon, even all these words that are written concerning
Babylon.
\v 61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When you come to Babylon, then see that you read all these words,
\v 62 and say, O Jehovah, you have spoken concerning this place, to cut it off, that none shall dwell therein, neither man nor
beast, but that it shall be desolate for ever.
\v 63 And it shall be, when you have made an end of reading this book, that you shall bind a stone to it, and cast it into
the midst of the Euphrates:
\v 64 and you shall say, Thus shall Babylon sink, and shall not rise again because of the evil that I will bring upon her; and
they shall be weary.
\p Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.