\c 3
\p
\v 1 Woe to the bloody city! it is all full of lies and rapine; the prey departs not.
\v 2 The noise of the whip, and the noise of the rattling of wheels, and prancing horses, and bounding chariots,
\v 3 the horseman mounting, and the flashing sword, and the glittering spear, and a multitude of slain, and a great heap of
corpses, and there is no end of the bodies; they stumble upon their bodies;—
\v 4 because of the multitude of the whoredoms of the well-favored harlot, the mistress of witchcrafts, that selleth nations
through her whoredoms, and families through her witchcrafts.
\v 5 Behold, I am against thee, says Jehovah of hosts, and I will uncover your skirts upon your face; and I will show the
nations your nakedness, and the kingdoms your shame.
\v 6 And I will cast abominable filth upon you, and make you vile, and will set you as a gazing-stock.
\v 7 And it shall come to pass, that all they that look upon you shall flee from you, and say, Nineveh is laid waste: who
will bemoan her? whence shall I seek comforters for thee?
\p
\v 8 Are you better than No-amon, that was situate among the rivers, that had the waters round about her; whose rampart was
the sea, and her wall was of the sea?
\v 9 Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was infinite; Put and Lubim were your helpers.
\v 10 Yet was she carried away, she went into captivity; her young children also were dashed in pieces at the head of all the
streets; and they cast lots for her honorable men, and all her great men were bound in chains.
\v 11 You also shall be drunken; you shall be hid; you also shall seek a stronghold because of the enemy.
\v 12 All your fortresses shall be like fig-trees with the first-ripe figs: if they be shaken, they fall into the
mouth of the eater.
\v 13 Behold, your people in the midst of you are women; the gates of your land are set wide open to your enemies: the fire
has devoured your bars.
\v 14 Draw you water for the siege; strengthen your fortresses; go into the clay, and tread the mortar; make strong the
brickkiln.
\v 15 There shall the fire devour you; the sword shall cut you off; it shall devour you like the canker-worm: make yourself
many as the canker-worm; make yourself many as the locust.
\v 16 You have multiplied your merchants above the stars of heaven: the canker-worm ravageth, and fleeth away.
\v 17 Your princes are as the locusts, and your marshals as the swarms of grasshoppers, which encamp in the hedges in the cold
day, but when the sun arises they flee away, and their place is not known where they are.
\v 18 Your shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria; your nobles are at rest; your people are scattered upon the mountains, and there
is none to gather them.
\v 19 There is no assuaging of your hurt; your wound is grievous: all that hear the report of you clap their hands over you;
for upon whom has not your wickedness passed continually?