\c 1
\p
\v 1 The words of Amos, who was among the herdsmen of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of
Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.
\p
\v 2 And he said, Jehovah will roar from Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the pastures of the shepherds shall
mourn, and the top of Carmel shall wither.
\p
\v 3 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Damascus, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof;
because they have threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron.
\v 4 But I will send a fire into the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben-hadad.
\v 5 And I will break the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant from the valley of Aven, and him that holds the sceptre
from the house of Eden; and the people of Syria shall go into captivity to Kir, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 6 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Gaza, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because
they carried away captive the whole people, to deliver them up to Edom:
\v 7 but I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.
\v 8 And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and him that holds the sceptre from Ashkelon; and I will turn my hand
against Ekron; and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 9 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Tyre, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because
they delivered up the whole people to Edom, and remembered not the brotherly covenant.
\v 10 But I will send a fire on the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.
\p
\v 11 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Edom, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because
he did pursue his brother with the sword, and did cast off all pity, and his anger did tear perpetually, and he kept his wrath
for ever.
\v 12 But I will send a fire upon Teman, and it shall devour the palaces of Bozrah.
\p
\v 13 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of the children of Ammon, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment
thereof; because they have ripped up the women with child of Gilead, that they may enlarge their border.
\v 14 But I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour the palaces thereof, with shouting in the day of
battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind;
\v 15 and their king shall go into captivity, he and his princes together, says Jehovah.