\c 2
\p
\v 1 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because
he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime.
\v 2 But I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth; and Moab shall die with tumult, with
shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet;
\v 3 and I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will kill all the princes thereof with him, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 4 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because
they have rejected the law of Jehovah, and have not kept his statutes, and their lies have caused them to err, after which
their fathers did walk.
\v 5 But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
\p
\v 6 Thus says Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, yea, for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof;
because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes—
\v 7 they that pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek: and a man and his
father go to the same maiden, to profane my holy name:
\v 8 and they lay themselves down beside every altar upon clothes taken in pledge; and in the house of their God they drink the
wine of such as have been fined.
\p
\v 9 Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks;
yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.
\v 10 Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the
Amorite.
\v 11 And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not even thus, O you children of
Israel? says Jehovah.
\v 12 But you gave the Nazirites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not.
\p
\v 13 Behold, I will press you in your place, as a cart presses that is full of sheaves.
\v 14 And flight shall perish from the swift; and the strong shall not strengthen his force; neither shall the mighty deliver
himself;
\v 15 neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and he that is swift of foot shall not deliver
himself; neither shall he that rideth the horse deliver himself;
\v 16 and he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, says Jehovah.