\c 4
\p
\v 1 Hear this word, you kine of Bashan, that are in the mountain of Samaria, that oppress the poor, that crush the needy, that
say to their lords, Bring, and let us drink.
\v 2 The Lord Jehovah has sworn by his holiness, that, lo, the days shall come upon you, that they shall take you away with
hooks, and your residue with fish-hooks.
\v 3 And you shall go out at the breaches, every one straight before her; and you shall cast
yourselves into Harmon, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 4 Come to Beth-el, and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; and bring your sacrifices every morning,
and your tithes every three days;
\v 5 and offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, and proclaim free will offerings and publish them: for
this pleases you, O you children of Israel, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 6 And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places; yout have you not
returned to me, says Jehovah.
\v 7 And I also have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet three months to the harvest; and I caused it to rain
upon one city, and caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rained upon, and the piece whereupon it rained not
withered.
\v 8 So two or three cities wandered to one city to drink water, and were not satisfied: yout have you not returned to me,
says Jehovah.
\v 9 I have struck you with blasting and mildew: the multitude of your gardens and your vineyards and your fig-trees and your
olive-trees has the palmer-worm devoured: yout have you not returned to me, says Jehovah.
\v 10 I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt: your young men have I slain with the sword, and have
carried away your horses; and I have made the stench of your camp to come up even into your nostrils: yout have you not returned
to me, says Jehovah.
\v 11 I have overthrown cities among you, as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were as a brand plucked
out of the burning: yout have you not returned to me, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 12 Therefore thus will I do to thee, O Israel; and because I will do this to thee, prepare to meet your God, O
Israel.
\v 13 For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and declares to man what is his thought; that makes
the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the Earth— Jehovah, the God of hosts, is his name.