\c 6
\p
\v 1 Woe to them that are at ease in Zion, and to them that are secure in the mountain of Samaria, the notable men of the chief
of the nations, to whom the house of Israel come!
\v 2 Pass you to Calneh, and see; and from thence go you to Hamath the great; then go down to Gath of the Philistines: are they
better than these kingdoms? or is their border greater than your border?
\v 3 —ye that put far away the evil day, and cause the seat of violence to come near;
\v 4 that lie upon beds of ivory, and stretch themselves upon their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves
out of the midst of the stall;
\v 5 that sing idle songs to the sound of the viol; that invent for themselves instruments of music, like David;
\v 6 that drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the chief oils; but they are not grieved for the affliction of
Joseph.
\p
\v 7 Therefore shall they now go captive with the first that go captive; and the revelry of them that stretched themselves
shall pass away.
\v 8 The Lord Jehovah has sworn by himself, says Jehovah, the God of hosts: I abhor the excellency of Jacob, and hate his
palaces; therefore will I deliver up the city with all that is therein.
\v 9 And it shall come to pass, if there remain ten men in one house, that they shall die.
\v 10 And when a man’s uncle shall take him up, even he that burns him, to bring out the bones out of the house, and shall
say to him that is in the innermost parts of the house, Is there yet any with thee? and he shall say, No; then shall he say,
Hold your peace; for we may not make mention of the name of Jehovah.
\v 11 For, behold, Jehovah commandeth, and the great house shall be struck with breaches, and the little house with clefts.
\p
\v 12 Shall horses run upon the rock? will one plow there with oxen? that you have turned justice into gall, and the
fruit of righteousness into wormwood;
\v 13 you that rejoice in a thing of nought, that say, Have we not taken to us horns by our own strength?
\v 14 For, behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, says Jehovah, the God of hosts; and they shall
afflict you from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of the Arabah.