\c 9
\p
\v 1 I saw the Lord standing beside the altar: and he said, Strike the capitals, that the thresholds may shake; and break them
in pieces on the head of all of them; and I will kill the last of them with the sword: there shall not one of them flee away,
and there shall not one of them escape.
\v 2 Though they dig into Sheol, thence shall my hand take them; and though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them
down.
\v 3 And though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out thence; and though they be hid from
my sight in the bottom of the sea, thence will I command the serpent, and it shall bite them.
\v 4 And though they go into captivity before their enemies, thence will I command the sword, and it shall kill them: and I
will set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good.
\p
\v 5 For the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, is he that touches the land and it melteth, and all that dwell therein shall
mourn; and it shall rise up wholly like the River, and shall sink again, like the River of Egypt;
\v 6 it is he that builds his chambers in the heavens, and has founded his vault upon the earth; he that calls
for the waters of the sea, and pours them out upon the face of the earth; Jehovah is his name.
\p
\v 7 Are you not as the children of the Ethiopians to me, O children of Israel? says Jehovah. Have not I brought up Israel
out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?
\v 8 Behold, the eyes of the Lord Jehovah are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the earth;
save that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, says Jehovah.
\v 9 For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all the nations, like as
grain is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the least kernel fall upon the earth.
\v 10 All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say, The evil shall not overtake nor meet us.
\p
\v 11 In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise
up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old;
\v 12 that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations that are called by my name, says Jehovah that does this.
\v 13 Behold, the days come, says Jehovah, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that
sows seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt.
\v 14 And I will bring back the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and
they shall plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make gardens, and eat the fruit of them.
\v 15 And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be plucked up out of their land which I have given them,
says Jehovah your God.