\c 2
\s Romans 2:1-5
\sr Any one of you Jews who condemns non-Jews for doing evil will be condemned by God, because you also do the same evil things.
\p
\v 1  God will severely punish non-Jewish people who habitually do evil deeds, because he has clearly revealed that he is angry with them. So, when God judges people, he will not excuse any one of you Jews  to whom I am writing. You do  some of the same  evil deeds  that the non-Jews do. 
\v 2 We know very well that God will judge and punish fairly  non-Jewish people who do such  evil deeds. 
\v 3 So, you who  say God should punish others for doing evil deeds yet you do evil deeds yourself, you should certainly not think that you yourself will be able to escape from being punished by God! 
\v 4 And you should not say, "God is acting very tolerantly and patiently toward me, so I do not need to turn away from my sin  
\v 5 But instead, by your stubbornly refusing to turn away from your sinful behavior  God to punish you even more severely. He will do that at the time when he shows that he is angry and judges people fairly.
\s Romans 2:6-11
\sr Because God is not influenced by a person's status, he will recompense each person according to what that person has done.
\p
\v 6 God will recompense everyone according to  what they deserve for what they have done. 
\v 7  Specifically, some people, by persevering in doing good deeds, strive to be highly honored  by God  and to receive a life that will not end. God will reward them by enabling them to live forever. 
\v 8 But some people act in a selfish way and refuse to believe that  what God says is true, and they do the things that  God says are wrong. God will punish them very severely . 
\v 9 He will cause everyone who habitually does evil deeds to suffer greatly, with the result that they will become severely distressed . This certainly will happen to the Jews  who refuse to accept God's message, because God gave them the privilege to be his special people, but it will also happen to the non-Jews. 
\v 10 But  God will greatly reward spiritually  every person who habitually does good deeds. He will  certainly do this for the Jews  because God chose them as his special people, but he will also do it for the non-Jews. 
\v 11 God  will do this fairly, because people's status does not influence him.
\s Romans 2:12-16
\sr All non-Jews will be eternally separated from God for their sin and all Jews will be condemned for their sin, since it is only those who have continually obeyed his laws whom God will justify.
\p
\v 12 Although  non-Jews do not have the laws that  God gave to Moses, all  non-Jews who sin will be eternally separated from God. He will  not consider whether or not they knew the laws that he  gave to Moses. And all the  Jews who have sinned in spite of knowing the laws that  God gave to Moses will also be punished . They will be punished for disobeying God's laws. 
\v 13  It is right for them to be punished . 
\v 14 Whenever the non-Jews, who do not have the laws  God gave to Moses, naturally obey those laws, they prove that they have a law within their own minds, even though they do not have the laws  God gave to Moses. 
\v 15 They show that they know in their own minds what God  commands in his laws   his behavior. 
\v 16 God  will punish them at the time when he will judge people according to what they have thought and done. He will judge them  even for the things that they have done secretly. He will judge people by  authorizing Christ Jesus  to judge them. This is  what I tell people when I preach the good message to them.
\s Romans 2:17-24
\sr It is disgusting that any one of you who has all the advantages of being a Jew would disobey God's law and, by doing so, insult God.
\p
\v 17  Now I have something to say to any one of you  Jews to whom I am writing: You trust  that God will save you because you possess the laws  that he gave to Moses. You boast that  you belong to God. 
\v 18 You know what God desires. Because you have been taught  God's laws, you are able to know which things are right and to choose to do them. 
\v 19 You are certain that you  are able to show  God's truth to non-Jews, as guides  show the road to those who are blind . 
\v 20  You are certain that you can instruct. 
\v 21  Since you claim that you have all these advantages because you are a Jew, it is disgusting that you who teach other people  that they should obey the laws God gave Moses do not  obey the laws that you yourself teach! 
\v 22 You who command people not to have sexual relations with someone to whom they are not married, it is disgusting that it you commit adultery yourself! 
\v 23 You who boast saying, "I have God's laws," it is disgusting that you disobey those same laws! As a result you are insulting God! 
\v 24  You must not be like our ancestors, about whom were written  these words in the Scriptures:  "The non-Jews speak evil about God because of  the evil actions of many of you  Jews." They non-Jews say God must be a hypocrite if he condones the behavior of people like you.
\s Romans 2:25-29
\sr God will consider non-Jews acceptable to him if they obey his laws, and such non-Jews will declare God is right in condemning those who disobey his laws, because it is only those who are changed inwardly who are true Jews and acceptable to God.
\p
\v 25 Any one of you who  is circumcised  to show that he belong to God can benefit from that if he obeys the laws  God gave to Moses. But if you, a circumcised person, disobey  God's laws, God will consider that you who are circumcised are no better  in God's sight thansomeone who is not circumcised. 
\v 26 This means that God will certainly consider that even  non-Jews who are not circumcised can become his people if they obey the things that he commanded in his laws. 
\v 27  If any one of you disobeys God's laws, even though  you God will punish you. And those people who are not circumcised, but who obey God's laws, will declare that God is right when he says that he will punish you. 
\v 28 It is not those who perform rituals  to show they are God's people who are  true Jews, and it is not being circumcised in their bodies  that causes God to accept them . 
\v 29 On the contrary, we whom  God has changed inwardly are  true Jews . And  God has accepted us because we have allowed God's Spirit to change our hearts, not because we perform rituals. Even if  other people will not praise us, God will praise us.
