\c 3
\s Romans 3:1-8
\sr My reply to the objection that there is no advantage in being a Jew or being circumcised is that there is much advantage, especially since God entrusted his promises to us. My reply to the objection that God has not kept his promise is that he certainly has, for his promises are always true. My reply to the objection that it is not right for God to punish us Jews is that it certainly is right for him to punish us, because if God did not judge us Jews he could not judge anyone.
\p
\v 1 Someone may object to this, saying, "If being circumcised does not cause God to accept us Jews, there is no advantage in being a Jew over being a non-Jew. Being circumcised does not benefit us Jews at all!"
\v 2 I would reply that being Jews benefitsus in many ways .
\v 3 Many Jews did not obey God as they promised that they would. So someone might ask, "Does their not being faithful mean that God will not bless us Jews as he promised that he would?"
\v 4 I would reply, "No, it certainly does not mean that! God always does what he has promised, even though people do not. All those who accuse God of not keeping his promises to us Jews are very mistaken." What King David wrote about God's justly saying that he would punish him for his sins is also true of those who accuse God of not keeping his promises. What he said to God was, "So everyone must acknowledge that what you."
\p
\v 5 So if we Jews' being wicked ? I should not be saying these things, but I am speaking as ordinary humans speak.
\v 6 We should certainly not conclude that God should not judge us, because if God did not judge us Jews, it would not possibly be right for him to judge anyone in the world 
\v 7 But someone might object and say to me, "The fact that God truly keeps his promises becomes very clear
\v 8 If what you, Paul, say is true, then we might as well do evil things in order that good things like that will result! For example, then people will praise God!" Some people speak evil about me by their falsely saying that I say such things. God will fairly, Or: justly punish people who say such things about me!
\s Romans 3:9-18
\sr My reply to a query about whether God will treat Jews more favorably than non-Jews is no, because the Scriptures make clear that all people are condemned by God for their sin.
\p
\v 9 If someone would ask, "Shall we conclude that God will treat us Jews more favorably and will treat the non-Jews lessfavorably .
\v 10 The following words that are written  in the Scriptures support this,
\p No person is righteous. There is not even one righteous person!
\v 11 There is no one who understands how to live properly  to know God!
\p
\v 12 Absolutely everyone has turned away . There is no one who acts righteously; no, there is not even one!
\q
\v 13 What people say , they deceive people.
\q By what they say .
\q
\v 14 They are continually cursing.
\q
\v 15 They go quickly.
\q
\v 16 Wherever they go they ruin everything and make people miserable .
\q
\v 17 They have not known how to live peacefully with other people.
\q
\v 18 They absolutely refuse to fear!
\s Romans 3:19-20
\sr In summary, no one is able to object to God's condemnation; everyone has been declared guilty by God.
\p
\v 19 Furthermore, we know that it is to Jewish people, who are required to obey God's laws, that Moses wrote those laws  guilty!
\v 20 It is not because people have done the things that God's laws require that God will erase the record of their sins.
\s Romans 3:21-26
\sr Now God erases the record of sins of everyone, Jew and non-Jew, who trusts in what Jesus Christ has done for them. God presented Christ as the one who would atone for sins by dying on the cross.
\p
\v 21 But God's erasing the record of our sins.
\v 22 God erases the record of our sins because we trust in what Jesus Christ has done for us. God does this for every person who trusts in Christ, because he considers that there is no difference between Jews and non-Jews.
\v 23 All people have done evil, and all people have failed to accomplish the glorious goals that God set for them.
\v 24 Our record of sins has been erased  by his acting kindly to forgive our sins, without our doing anything to earn it. Christ Jesus accomplished this by dying for us.
\v 25 God showed that Christ was the one who would atone for  us because of our trusting in Christ's having died for us. God wanted to show that he acts justly. He wanted to do that because, before Christ came, God did not punish everyone who sinned. So it seemed as though he was not being just. But he was overlooking their sins during that time,
\v 26 because he is patient. God arranged for Christ to die for us. By doing that, he now shows that he is just, and he shows that he is justly able to erase the record of sins for everyone who trusts in Jesus.
\s Romans 3:27-31
\sr So we are prevented from boasting that it was because of our obeying the Mosaic laws. And God will also accept non-Jews on the same basis. And by agreeing that people are declared righteous by their trusting in Christ, we actually confirm, not nullify, the Mosaic laws.
\p
\v 27 It is not at all  Instead, it is because of our believing, Or: trustingin Christ that God erases the record of our sins.
\v 28 We cannot boast about that, because we conclude that the record of our sins is erased  because of our trusting in Christ. God does not erase the record of our sins because of our obeying the laws that he gave to Moses, because it is impossible for us to completely obey them.
\v 29 You who are Jews certainly should not think that is you are the only ones whom God will accept! Of course, he will accept non-Jews also,
\v 30 because, as you firmly believe, there is only one God, who will erase the record of Jews'  sins if they trust in Christ.
\v 31 So, if someone should ask concerning the laws that God gave Moses, "By saying that God erases the record of our sins because of our trusting in Christ, does that mean that those laws now are useless?", I would reply, "Certainly not. Instead, we truly fulfill the laws that God gave Moses."
