\c 4
\s Romans 4:1-8
\sr We can draw conclusions from Abraham's life about how God erases the record of our sins. Abraham could not boast about his accomplishing that because the Scriptures record that it was because he believed what God promised that God erased the record of his sins. God's doing that was a gift, not a reward.
\p
\v 1 Abraham is the revered ancestor of us Jews. So think about what we can conclude from what happened to Abraham about how God can erase the record of our sins.
\v 2 If it was because of Abraham's doing good things that the record of his sins was erased , Abraham could then have been able to boast about that to people, but he would not have had any basis to boast to God about it.
\v 3 Remember that in the Scriptures it is written .
\v 4 If we receive wages for work that we do, those wages are not considered to be a gift. Instead, they are considered to be what we have earned. Similarly, if God erases the record of our sins because we did things to earn God's favor, we would not consider that God's erasing the record of our sin was a gift. Instead, we would consider it as what we had earned.
\v 5 But suppose that we do not do things to gain God's acceptance. Suppose that we instead trust in God, who erases the record of sins of wicked people. Then the erasing of the record of our sins because of our trusting in Christ is considered to be a gift to us, not something that we earned.
\v 6 Similarly, it is as David wrote in the Psalms about people being happy whose record of sins God has erased even though they have not done things to earn it. David wrote:
\q
\v 7 God is pleased with people whose sins have been .
\q
\v 8 God causes to be happy the people whose sins he no longer keeps a record of.
\s Romans 4:9-12
\sr This happiness of knowing that God has erased the record of our sins is also for the non-Jews. Remember that it was before Abraham was circumcised, when he was still in effect a non-Jew, that God did that. He later received circumcision simply as a sign of God having erased the record of his sins because of his faith. The result was that he became a spiritual father of all who believe in God as he did, whether they are circumcised or not.
\p
\v 9 As for our being happy because God has erased the record of our sins, it is not something that only we Jews can experience., also shows that this is true.
\v 10 Think about when God erased the record of Abraham's sins. It happened before he was circumcised, not after he was circumcised.
\v 11 Many years later, God commanded that Abraham be circumcised. Abraham's accepting that ritual simply showed that he knew that God had accepted him. He knew that God had erased the record of his sins because he trusted in God while he was still, in effect, a non-Jew because he had not been circumcised. So we can understand that Abraham became a spiritual ancestor because we believe in God's promise, even though some of us are not circumcised.
\v 12 Likewise, Abraham is the spiritual ancestor of all us Jews who are not merely circumcised but who, more importantly, believe in God's promise as our ancestor Abraham did, even before he was circumcised.
\s Romans 4:13-17a
\sr It was because Abraham trusted in God that God erased the record of his sins and promised him many blessings. So what God promised is guaranteed to all, both Jews and non-Jews, who trust in God as Abraham did.
\p
\v 13 God promised Abraham and his descendants that they would receive the blessings that he promised to give to the people in the world. But when he promised that, it was not because Abraham obeyed the laws that God later gave to Moses. Instead, it was because Abraham believed that God would do what he promised that he would do. As a result, God erased the record of his sins.
\v 14-15 If we think that it is those who obey God's laws who will receive what he has promised, it is useless for us to think that he will erase the record of our sins just because we trust in him. And it is pointless for us to think that he will give us what he promised just because we trust in him. Remember that it is stated in God's law .
\v 16 So it is because we trust in God that we will receive the things that he has promised. It is not because we perfectly obey God's laws. He wants to erase the record of our sins without our earning it. As a result, what God now promises, he guarantees to give to all people who are Abraham's spiritual descendants. He promises to do that not only for us Jewish believers, who have God's laws and trust in him as Abraham did, but also for those non-Jews who do not have God's laws but who trust in him as Abraham did. Abraham is the spiritual ancestor of all of us believers.
\v 17 What is written  may be the ancestor of many ethnic groups that I have appointed you."
\s Romans 4:17b-22
\sr It was because Abraham confidently believed God's promise to give him many descendants, when there was no physical basis for his hoping that this would happen, that God erased the record of his sins.
\p God guaranteed that he would give Abraham many descendants. Abraham confidently believed that God would do that,
\v 18 even though there was no physical reason for him to hope that he would have descendants, because he and his wife were too old to bear children. But God is the one who causes dead people to live again, and who talks about things that do not yet exist as already existing. God said to Abraham, "You will have so many descendants that they will be as impossible to count as the stars." And Abraham believed that, and he believed that he would become the ancestor of many ethnic groups.
\v 19 He did not doubt that God would do what he promised, even though he knew that his body was already as incapable of begetting children as if he were dead ,
\v 20 he did not doubt at all that God would do what he had promised. Instead, he trusted in God more strongly, and he thanked God for what God was going to do.
\v 21 He was also convinced  that the thing that God promised, God was able to do.
\v 22 And that is the reason that the record of his sins was erased .
\s Romans 4:23-25
\sr The words about God erasing the record of Abraham's sins were written also to assure us who believe in God.
\p
\v 23 The words in the Scriptures, "The record of his sins was erased ," are not only about Abraham.
\v 24 They were also written  for us who believe God, the one who caused our Lord Jesus to become alive again after he died.
\v 25 Jesus allowed men to execute  him so that God could forgive our evil deeds. And God caused Jesus to live again because God wanted to show that because of the death of Jesus he was able to erase the record of our sins.
