\c 5
\s Romans 5:1-5
\sr Because God has erased the record of our sins, we have peace with him, we experience his acting kindly toward us, we rejoice because we expect to receive God's glory, and we even rejoice in suffering because we know the results that it brings.
\p
\v 1 Because we trusted in Christ, the record of our sins has been erased . So we now have a peaceful relationship with God because of our trust in what our Lord Jesus Christ has done for us.
\v 2 Because of what Christ has done, God has also enabled us to begin experiencing his continually acting toward us in ways that we do not deserve. Also, we rejoice because we are confidently expecting that God will gladly show us how great he is.
\v 3 We rejoice even when we suffer as a result of our trusting in Christ, because we know that when we are suffering, the result is that we learn to endure things patiently.
\v 4 And we know that when we endure things patiently, the result is that God approves of us. And when we know that God approves of us, the result is that we confidently expect that he will do great things for us.
\v 5 And we are very confident  given to us, causes us to understand how much God loves us.
\s Romans 5:6-11
\sr Because Christ died for us ungodly people, he will certainly save us from God's eternal punishment, and so we boast of what he has done for us.
\p
\v 6 When we were unable to save ourselves, it was Christ who, at the time that God chose, died on behalf of us ungodly people.
\v 7 Rarely would anyone die on behalf of another person, even if that person were righteous, although for a good person perhaps someone might be courageous enough to die on behalf of such a person.
\v 8 Nevertheless, as for God, the way he showed us that he loves us is that Christ died on our behalf while we were still rebelling against God.
\v 9 The record of our sins has been erased .
\v 10 Even when we were acting hostilely towards God, he enabled us to have a peaceful relationship with him as a result of his Son dying for us. So it is even more certain that we will be saved  because he is alive again and because God has enabled us to have a peaceful relationship with himself.
\v 11 And that's not all! Now we also rejoice about the things that God has done for us because of our Lord Jesus Christ dying for us and enabling us to have a peaceful relationship with God.
\s Romans 5:12-21
\sr Although the sin of one man, Adam, led to all people dying and God declaring that they deserved to be punished, Christ's righteous act of obedience when he died led to many people experiencing God's kindness and being declared righteous and living eternally, and it will also result in their ruling with Christ.
\p
\v 12 What you can learn from what I have written so far is as follows: All people are sinful  because he sinned. So, all people who have lived since then die, because it is as though all people sinned when Adam sinned.
\v 13 People in  to be guilty for their sins if there is no law stating that what they did was sinful.
\v 14 But we know that from the time when Adam lived until the time when Moses lived, all people sinned, and they died as a consequence . Even people who sinned differently from the way Adam sinned, died. Adam's sin affected all people, just like what Christ did, the one who came later, can affect all people.
\v 15 But the results of God's erasing the record of our sins as a gift to us are not like the results of Adam's sinning. The result of one man, Adam, sinning was that many them in a way they did not deserve.
\v 16 And there is another way in which God's freely erasing the record of our sins is not like the results of Adam's sinning. One person, Adam, sinned. As a result, God declared that all people deserve to be punished. Many people sinned. But what God did was that he erased the record of their sins without their earning it.
\v 17 All people die , in heaven. This will happen because of what one man, Jesus Christ, did for us.
\p
\v 18 So, because one man, Adam, disobeyed God's law, that resulted in all people deserving to be punished . Similarly, because one man, Jesus, acted righteously by obeying God when he died, the result was that God is able to erase the record of all people's sins and enable them to live eternally.
\v 19 It was because one person, Adam, disobeyed God that many.
\v 20 God gave  in order that people might realize how greatly they had sinned; but as people sinned more, God continued to act even more kindly toward them, in a way that they did not deserve.
\v 21 He did that in order that just like people everywhere inevitably sin, which results in their dying  by erasing the record of their sins. The result is that people can live eternally because of what Jesus Christ our Lord did for them.
