\c 6
\s Romans 6:1-14
\sr If someone were to say that perhaps we should continue to sin in order that God may continue to act more kindly toward us, I would reply that we who ought to consider ourselves unresponsive to sinful desires should certainly not continue sinning. We must keep remembering that it is as though our former sinful nature has ceased to function, and it is as though we have become unresponsive to sinful desires, living in a new way. So do not let the desire to commit sin control you. Instead, present yourselves to God to do righteous things.
\p
\v 1 Someone might 
\v 2 I would reply, No, certainly not! We ought to consider that our sinful desires 
\v 3 When we were baptized 
\v 4 So, when we were baptized . We were baptized to signify that we would continually conduct our lives in a new way, just like Christ was caused to live again in a new way by the great power of God his Father.
\v 5 Because of our close relationship with Christ, we have separated ourselves from the former way in which we conducted our lives, just like he was separated from his physical life when he died . But God will also certainly enable us to live in a new way, just like he enabled Christ to live again.
\v 6 We must keep remembering that when Christ died on the cross , as slaves have to do what their masters want.
\v 7 We are, as it were, freed  controlling us, just like those who have died are free from anything controlling them.
\v 8 Since it is as though we died with Christ, we believe that we will continue to live with him.
\v 9 We know that since God enabled Christ to live again after he died, Christ will never die again. Nothing will ever be able to make him die again .
\v 10 When he died, he died once for people who had sinned, and he will never die again; but in regard to his living again now, he lives in order to serve God.
\v 11 Similarly, you must consider that it is as though you have become unable to do what your sinful desires  God.
\v 12 So, do not let the desire to sin  with the result that you do the sinful things that you desire to do. Remember that your bodies will surely die, but your spirits will never die.
\v 13 Do not let any of your body parts do wicked things, as you did  when you were spiritually dead. Instead, present yourselves to God as people who are alive spiritually. Present all your body parts to God, to allow him to use them to do righteous things.
\v 14 Do not let a desire to sin control you . The laws that God gave Moses did not enable youto stop sinning. But now God controls you and kindly helps you not to sin.
\s Romans 6:15-23
\sr If someone should conclude that people can sin now because they are not obligated to obey the Mosaic laws, I would say, "Certainly not!" Instead, let your minds compel your bodies to act righteously.
\p
\v 15 I suppose that certain people might think about what I have just said and they might say " My reply to that is no, we should certainly not continue sinning!
\v 16 Slaves have to obeywhat their masters command , and you will be eternally separated from God. If you have yielded yourselves to obey God, you are slaves of God and you need to live righteously.
\v 17 You were once slaves to your sinful desires. But you began to sincerely obey the new teaching . I thank God for that.
\v 18 I also thank God that you have been freed .
\v 19 I am illustrating what I say by talking about slavery because your human nature prevents you from understanding spiritual truth easily. In the past you willingly did the immoral and unlawful things that your minds compelled your bodies to do  way.
\v 20 When you were like slaves because your sinful desires compelled you to do sinful things .
\v 21 Nevertheless, doing those things resulted in your being separated from God, so you did not benefit at all from doing the sinful things that you are now ashamed of.
\v 22 But you have been freed  the slaves of God. So now the result is that God has caused you to completely belong to him and, as a result, you will live eternally.
\v 23 What people receive for sinning is that they are eternally separated from God. That is like wages that people receive  Christ Jesus our Lord.
