\c 7
\s Romans 7:1-6
\sr You know that after people die they are freed from being required to obey any law. Similarly, God has freed us from being required to obey all the Jewish rituals and laws.
\p
\v 1 My fellow believers, you know about laws. So you certainly know 
\v 2 For example, a woman is required by the law  obey the law about remaining married to her husband.
\v 3 Therefore, a woman will be called  an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she no longer has to obey that law. Then she will not be an adulteress if she marries another man.
\v 4 Likewise, my fellow believers, just like people are free from having to obey any law after they die  to honor God.
\v 5 When our self-directed nature controlled us, desires that led us to sin were acting in our bodies. Those desires were increased because of our knowing God's laws  that caused us to be separated from God.
\v 6 But now we are freed . So we serve God, not by having to obey those rituals, which is the old way, but in the new way, as God's Spirit helps us to serve him.
\s Romans 7:7-12
\sr My reply to the objection that the laws of Moses are evil because they cause us to sin is that the laws are holy and good; what the laws do are simply to reveal that what we are doing is sinful.
\p
\v 7 Someone might object, saying, "The laws that God gave Moses must be evil if our sinful desires are increased because of our knowing those laws. , "You must not covet."
\v 8 And because of what that commandment stated, my sinful desire to have things that belong to others  when there is no law that prohibits our doing sinful things.
\v 9 Formerly, when I did not know what God's laws required, I used to live without worrying about what I was doing. But when I became aware that God commanded, "You must not covet," I suddenly realized  that I was sinning,
\v 10 and I realized that I was separated from God. The laws that I thought would enable me to live eternally as a result of my obeying them caused me to realize that I was separated from God!
\v 11 My desire to sin found a way .
\v 12 So we conclude that the laws that God gave to Moses are holy. What God commanded about not coveting, along with all the other things that he commanded, is also holy, and it is just and good.
\s Romans 7:13
\sr My reply to the objection that God's law, being good, causes people to become spiritually dead is no, it is our desire to commit sin that causes us to sin and become spiritually dead.
\p
\v 13 So, if someone were to object saying, "The laws that God gave Moses, which are good, resulted in my being separated from God!" I would reply, "Certainly they did not do that!" But instead, those laws, which are good, stimulated my desire to sin. I knew that the result was that I was separated from God. And also, because I learned what God had commanded, I knew that what I was doing was truly sinful.
\s Romans 7:14-25
\sr The laws came from God's Spirit, but you and I are influenced by our sinful natures. We often do not do the things that we desire, and we do the things that we detest because of a desire to sin that permeates us and prevents us from doing good, unless Christ frees us from being controlled by these desires.
\p
\v 14 We know that the laws that God gave Moses came from God's Spirit. But as for me, I am influenced by my self-directed nature. It is as though I have been forced to become a slave of my desire to sin .
\v 15 The things that I do, I often  it is the evil things that I detest that I do.
\v 16 Since I do the evil things that I do not want to do, I agree that the laws of God are good.
\v 17 So, it is not that I do evil things because I wish to do them. Instead, I do sinful things because the desire to sin causes me to do them. The desire to sin in within.
\v 18 I know that my self-directed nature will not let me  do anything that is good. I know this because I want to do what is good, but I do not do what is good.
\v 19 I do not do the good things that I want to do. Instead, it is evil things that I do not want to do that I do.
\v 20 Because I do evil things that I do not want to do, it is not that I do evil things because I want to. Instead, I do them because my self-directed nature, which permeates me , causes me to do them.
\v 21 I find, then, that what always happens is that when I want to do what is good, there is an evil desire present within me that  prevents me from doing good.
\v 22 With my new inner nature I like the laws of God very much.
\v 23 Nevertheless, I sense that there is a different force that is in my body.
\v 24 When I consider this, I feel that I am a very wretched person. I want someone to set me free from the control of what my body desires, in order that I might not be separated from God. I also think that what I have experienced is the same as what all believers experience.
\v 25 I thank God that it is by Jesus Christ our Lord that we can be free from the control of what our bodies desire. So, with our minds, you and I on the one hand want to obey God's laws. But also, you and I often let our sinful desires control us because of our self-directed nature.
