\c 8
\s Romans 8:1-11
\sr God will not in any way condemn those who are united to Christ Jesus, because God's Spirit has freed us from the inevitability of sinning and from spiritual death.
\p
\v 1 Because God has erased the record of our sins because we trust in what Christ has done for us, now God will not condemn and punish those Christ Jesus.
\v 2 God's Spirit causes us to live in a new way  and from being separated from God.
\v 3 What we could not do by trying to obey the laws of God  for all our sin.
\v 4 So we can now fulfill all that God required in his laws. We do this, not by our acting the way our sinful human nature desires, but instead by living as God's Spirit desires us to live.
\v 5 People who live according to what their self-directed nature desires think about and are concerned about what their self-directed nature desires. But people who live according to what God's Spirit desires think about and are concerned about what God's Spirit desires.
\v 6 Those people who . But those people who think about and are concerned about what God's Spirit desires will live eternally and have inner peace.
\v 7 Let me explain this. To the extent that people  think about and are concerned about what their self-directed nature desires, they are acting contrary to God. They do not obey the laws of God. In fact, they are not even able to obey his laws.
\v 8 The people who let their self-directed nature control them cannot do what pleases God.
\v 9 But we do not have to let our self-directed nature control us. Instead, we can let God's Spirit control us, because he lives within us. If people do not have living in them the Spirit who comes from Christ, they do not belong to Christ.
\v 10 But since Christ is living in you sins.
\v 11 God caused Jesus to live again after he died. And because his Spirit lives in you, to do it.
\s Romans 8:12-13
\sr We are compelled to live as the Spirit directs, not as our self-directed nature directs, because if we do the latter we will be eternally separated from God, but if we cease doing the latter we will live eternally.
\p
\v 12 Therefore, my fellow believers, we must live as the Spirit directs us. What we do not have to do is to live as our self-directed nature guides us.
\v 13 If you live the way your self-directed nature directs, you will surely not live eternally , you will live eternally.
\s Romans 8:14-17
\sr Because we who allow the Spirit of God to guide us are God's children, we will also inherit eternal blessings from God.
\p
\v 14 We who are guided by the Spirit of God  are God's children.
\v 15 You have showed that this is true, because you received from God a Spirit that is not one that makes you fear God again. You are not like slaves who fear their masters !"
\v 16 The Spirit himself confirms what our spirits say, that we are God's children.
\v 17 Because we are God's children, we also will some day receive them just like Christ has inherited them. But we must suffer for doing good as Christ did, in order to receive splendor as he did.
\s Romans 8:18-25
\sr Since everything that God has created is eagerly awaiting the time when he will reveal who are his true children, I consider that what we suffer now is not worth paying attention to.
\p
\v 18 I consider that what we suffer during the present time is not worth paying attention to, because the future splendor to us is so great.
\v 19 The things that God has created are very eagerly waiting for the time  when God will reveal who his true children are.
\v 20 God caused the things that he created to be unable to achieve what he had purposed. That was not because they wanted to be unable to do that. On the contrary, God made them that way because he wanted them to keep confidently expecting
\v 21 that the things that he created will be freed . He will free them in order that he can give them the same glory that belongs to his children.
\v 22 We know that until now it is as though all things that God created have been groaning together, and they long for that glory, just like a mother having the pains before bearing a child groans and longs for her baby's birth .
\v 23 Not only do those things groan, but we ourselves also groan inwardly. We who have God's Spirit, who is like a partial gift  we have received as we wait for the future glory, groan inwardly. We groan while we wait eagerly for the time when we will receive our full rights as God's adopted children. That will include his freeing our bodies from the things that hinder us on earth. He will do this by giving us new bodies.
\v 24 Ever since we were saved 
\v 25 But because we keep waiting expectantly to receive what we do not yet have, we wait for it eagerly and patiently.
\s Romans 8:26-27
\sr God's Spirit helps us when our spirits feel weak; he prays for us and God understands what his Spirit intends.
\p
\v 26 Similarly, in addition to our continuing to wait for what God will give us, God's Spirit helps us when our spirits feel weak. We do not know what is proper.
\v 27 God, who examines our inner feelings, understands what his Spirit desires. What God understands is that his Spirit prays for us who belong to God exactly as God wants him to pray.
\s Romans 8:28-30
\sr God works out all things in a way that produces good spiritual benefits for us who love him. He does this because, having known that we would be saved and thus we would have the character of his Son, he chose us and declared us righteous, and he will surely give us future splendor.
\p
\v 28 And we know that to those what he planned to do.
\v 29 God knew previously that we would believe in him  many younger brothers of Jesus.
\v 30 And us who God decided previously that we would be like his Son he also summoned. And for us whom he summoned, he also erased the record of our sins. And for us whose record of sins he has erased, he also will surely give future splendor.
\s Romans 8:31-39
\sr We must conclude from these things that no one can prevail against us, and absolutely no one and nothing can separate us from Christ's loving us and God's loving us.
\p
\v 31 So I will tell you what we must conclude from all these things that God does for us.
\v 32 God did not spare even his very own Son. Instead, he turned him over to others to cruelly kill him in order that all we who believe in him may benefit from his dying for us. Therefore, because God did that, he will also certainly give us freely everything that we need to live for him, in addition to giving us Christ.
\v 33 It is God himself who erases the record of our sins. So no one who accuses us before God will win against us 
\v 34 It is Christ Jesus himself who pleads with God for us, so no one can condemn us .
\v 35 Absolutely no one and nothing can cause Christ to stop loving us!.
\v 36 Such things may happen to us, just like it is written ."
\v 37 But even though all these bad things may happen to us, we win completely over these things because Christ, who loves us, helps us.
\v 38 I am completely convinced , nor what happens to us while we live, nor angels, nor demons, nor present events, nor future events, nor powerful beings, Or: forces,
\v 39 nor powerful beings above the horizon or below the horizon , nor anything else that God has created can cause God to stop loving us. God showed us that he loves us by sending Jesus Christ our Lord to die for us.
