\c 9
\s Romans 9:1-5
\sr I tell you very sincerely that I grieve greatly about most of my fellow Israelites having rejected Christ. I would be willing to be separated from Christ if that would help them believe in him.
\p
\v 1 Now I would like to discuss the fact that most of my fellow Israelites have rejected Christ. Because of my relationship with Christ, I say completely truthfully what I will now tell you. I am not lying ! My conscience confirms what I say because the Holy Spirit controls it.
\v 2 I tell you that I grieve very greatly and deeply  about my fellow Israelites.
\v 3 I personally would be willing to let God curse me and, as a result, be separated from Christ if that would help my fellow Israelites, my natural kinsmen, to believe in Christ.
\v 4 We Jews are Israelites, God's chosen descendants of Jacob. God has always considered us as his children . It was to our ancestors that he used to appear gloriously while they were in the desert. It was with them that God made covenants several times. It was to them that God gave the laws at Mount Sinai. They were the ones to whom God showed how they should worship him. They were the ones to whom God promised many things, especially that the Messiah would come from their race.
\v 5 It was our ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, whom God chose to found our nation. And, most importantly, it was from us Israelites that the Messiah received his human nature. Nevertheless, most of my fellow Israelites have rejected Christ, who is the one who controls all things! He is God, the one who is worthy that we praise him forever! This is true! 
\s Romans 9:6-13
\sr This does not prove that God has failed to do for Abraham what he promised, because, as Scripture illustrates, it is not all who are naturally descended from Jacob or Abraham whom God considers to be his children, but it is those who were born as a result of what God promised whom he considers his children.
\p
\v 6 God promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that their descendants would all inherit his blessings. But although most of my fellow Israelites have rejected Christ, that does not prove that God has failed to do the things that he promised, because it is not all who are descended from Jacob and who call themselves the people of Israel whom God considers to be truly his people.
\v 7 And it is also not all of Abraham's natural descendants that God considers to be his people. Instead, God considers only some of them to be Abraham's children. This agrees with what God told Abraham: "It is Isaac, not any of your other sons, whom I will consider to be the true father of your descendants."
\v 8 That means that it is not all the natural-born descendants of Abraham whom Godconsiders as his children. Instead it is those who were born as a result of believing what God promised whom he considers to be his children.
\v 9 You know that what God promised to Abraham was this: "About this time next year Sarah your wife will bear a son as a result of my enabling .
\v 10 And not only then did God show that he did not determine who would be his true children according to who their ancestors were. He showed it again when Rebecca conceived twins by our ancestor Isaac.
\v 11-12 Before the twins, Jacob and Esau, were born, when neither one had yet done anything good or bad, God said to Rebecca about the twins she was to bear, "The older one shall later serve the younger one, contrary to normal custom." God said this in order that we might clearly understand that what he purposed for people was according to what he himself determined. That is, people's eternal destiny does not depend on what they do. Instead, their destiny depends on God, the one who chooses them.
\v 13 And this teaching is supported Esau, the older son."
\s Romans 9:14-18
\sr As the Scriptures indicate, God's choosing people depends not on their wishes or efforts. He helps whomever he wants to help, and he makes stubborn whomever he wants to make stubborn. We cannot conclude that God is unjust in choosing the ones he wants to choose.
\p
\v 14 Someone might say, "Is God unjust by choosing the ones he wants to choose? I would reply, "He is certainly not unjust!"
\v 15 God told Moses, "I will pity and help anyone whom I choose !"
\v 16 So God chooses people, not because they want God to choose them or because they try hard to do things so that he will accept them. Instead he chooses people because he himself has mercy on undeserving ones.
\v 17 Moses recorded ."
\v 18 So we conclude that God kindly helps the ones he wants to act kindly towards. But he makes stubborn the ones such as Pharaoh that he wants to make stubborn.
\s Romans 9:19-29
\sr My reply to anyone's objection to this doctrine is that God has a right to carry out his purposes; he tolerated the people who caused him to be angry, in order that he might disclose how gloriously he acts toward those on whom he intends to have mercy.
\p
\v 19 One of you may object to this by saying to me, "Because God determines ahead of time everything that people do, that also implies that he wants us to do everything that we do. No one has resisted what God has willed!"
\v 20 I would reply that since you
\v 21 Instead, the potter certainly has the right to take some clay and from one lump of clay make one pot that people will honor and make another one for ordinary purposes  Similarly, God has the right to carry out what he purposes for people.
\v 22 Although God desires to show that he is angry about sin, and although he desires to make clear that he can powerfully punish people who have sinned, he tolerated very patiently the people .
\v 23 God has been patient in order that he might make clear how very wonderfully he acts toward those  whom he intended to act mercifully towards and whom he prepared ahead of time in order that they might live gloriously in heaven.
\v 24 That means us whom he chose—not only us Jews but also non-Jews.
\v 25 These words that Hosea wrote :
\q I will declare that many people who were not my people are now my people. I will declare that many people whom I did not love  before, I love now.
\q
\v 26 And another prophet wrote:
\q What will happen is that in the places where God told them before, "You are not my people," in those same places people will declare truthfully that they are children of God, who is completely powerful.
\q
\v 27 Isaiah also exclaimed concerning the Israelites:
\q Even though the Israelites are so many that no one can count them, like sand particles beside the ocean, only the small part of them will be saved ,
\v 28 because the Lord will punish completely and speedily the people who live in that land, as he said that he would do.
\p
\v 29 Also, we can understand from what the prophet Isaiah saidthat God would not save anyone if he did not show mercy,
\q If the Lord, who controls everything in heaven, had not mercifully allowed some of our descendants to survive, we would have become like the people of the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, who were  completely destroyed.
\s Romans 9:30-33
\sr The non-Jews found the way by which God could declare them righteous. The Jews did not succeed in fulfilling what the Mosaic laws require. Instead, they tried to find a way to be declared righteous by doing things in order that God would accept them.
\p
\v 30 We must conclude this: Although non-Jews did not search out a way by which God would erase the record of their sins, they found that way because they trusted in what Christ did for them.
\v 31 But although the people of Israel sought a basis by which God would erase the record of their sins, they did not succeed in fulfilling the true purpose of the laws that God gave to Moses.
\v 32 The reason  on which people stumble.
\v 33 This is what a prophet predicted when he wrote these words thatGod said about the Messiah:
\q Listen! I am placing in Israel . Nevertheless, those who believe in him will not be disappointed.
