\c 10
\s Romans 10:1-4
\sr My deep desire and earnest prayer is that God will save the Jews, who do not understand how to seek him correctly.
\p
\v 1 My fellow believers, what I deeply desire and what I pray to God earnestly for is that he will save  my own people, the Jews. 
\v 2 I declare truthfully about them that although they zealously seek God, they do not understand  how to seek, Or: know him correctly. 
\v 3 They did not submit themselves to the way that God erases the record of people's sins. They did not  want to recognize  that way because they wanted him to do it their own way. 
\v 4 They wanted God to erase the record of their sins  as a result of their obeying his laws. But because of what Christ has done, it is no longer necessary for  people to obey the laws  God gave Moses in order for the record of their sins to be erased. Now God will erase the record of sins of everyone who trusts  in what Christ has done.
\s Romans 10:5-13
\sr The message of Scripture is that those who confess publicly that Jesus is their Lord and who believe inwardly that God raised Jesus from the dead will be saved, because God accepts people only because of their faith, Jews and non-Jews alike.
\p
\v 5 In regard to  the old way, Moses wrote  concerning people who obey God's laws, "It is the people who have done  perfectly the things  that the laws require who will gain  eternal life by  doing them." 
\v 6 But those whose record of sins God has erased as a result of their believing  in Christ can say  to anyone " That is to say, someone will have to  go up and bring Christ down  to bring the message of salvation to us! 
\v 7 "Or  you should not say inwardly, 'Someone will have to go down and enter the place where  the spirits of dead persons are!" That is to say, someone will have to  go down and bring Christ up  from there to bring the message of salvation to us. You should not say that because Christ has already come down to save us, and has already risen from the dead! 
\v 8 But instead, those who believe in Christ  about it." This is the message that we proclaim, that people must believe  in Christ. 
\v 9  This message is that if anyone of you confesses. 
\v 10 If people believe inwardly  that Christ died and that God caused him to become alive again  publicly  that Jesus is their Lord, the result is that  God will save them. 
\v 11  It is written  about the Messiah, "Whoever believes in him will not be disappointed." 
\v 12  God treats the Jews and the non-Jews similarly. Because he is the same Lord for all people  who believe in him, he abundantly  blesses all who ask him  to help them. 
\v 13 This is  just like what the prophet Joel wrote: "All those who ask the Lord  God to save them will be saved ."
\s Romans 10:14-17
\sr There may be those who object by saying, "If God does not send someone to preach to the Jews, they cannot ask Christ to save them." My reply to them is that God has sent people to preach about Christ to them, but most of the Jews have not accepted the gospel. However, some Jews do believe in Christ, and many other people are indeed hearing the message.
\p
\v 14  In regard to the people of Israel rejecting the gospel, some people might object by saying,  
\v 15 And those who preach to them  about Christ, certainly cannot preach if they are not sent  by God  of those who preach the good message is wonderful!'" 
\v 16  I would reply in this way to people who say such things: God has indeed sent people to preach the message about Christ. But not all  the people of Israel have paid attention to the good message! It is like what Isaiah said  when he felt very discouraged, "Lord, it seems as if hardly anyone believed what they heard us" 
\v 17 So then, I tell you that people are believing  in Christ as a result of hearing  the message about him, and people are hearing  the message as a result of  people preaching  about Christ!
\s Romans 10:18-21
\sr In reply to a query of whether the Jews have heard or understood about Christ, I would say that, as is supported by the Scriptures, they have heard it and should have understood it, because even the non-Jews, who were not searching for God, understood it.
\p
\v 18 But  if someone were to ask, "Have not  the people of Israel heard  the message about God?" I would reply that they certainly  have heard! It is likewhat is written in the Psalms,
\q
The people living all over the world !
\p
\v 19 But  someone might ask, "Is it true that the people of  Israel understood  the message about Christ?" I would reply that certainly they understood it, but they rejected it! Remember that Moses was the first  one who warned the people of Israel about disobeying God. He told them that God said,
\q
You consider that the non-Jewish groups are not nations at all .
\q
\v 20 Remember also  what God saidvery boldly to Isaiah:
\q The non-Jews who did not try to know! 
\p
I will surely reveal what I am like to those who did not ask for me!
\p
\v 21 But concerning  the people of Israel, Isaiah tells  us that God said:
\q I have for a long time held out my arms to the people who disobeyed and rebelled against me, in order to invite them to return to me.
