\c 12
\s Romans 12:1-2
\sr I appeal to you that you present yourselves to God by making yourselves like living sacrifices, which is the appropriate way to serve him. Do not let anything non-Christian determine how you act, but instead let God change your way of thinking.
\p
\v 1 My fellow believers, since God has acted mercifully toward you in so many ways, I appeal to all of you that you present yourselves , this is the only appropriate way to serve him.
\v 2 Do not let anything non-Christian determine how you should act. Instead, let God change your way of life by making your way of thinking new, in order that you may know what he wants you to do. That is, you will know what is good, and you will know what pleasesGod, and you will know how to be all that he wants you to be.
\s Romans 12:3-8
\sr Do not think about yourselves more highly than you should. Instead, think about yourselves sensibly, in a way that corresponds to the abilities that God has given to you because you trust in Christ. May we do diligently and cheerfully what God has given us ability to do.
\p
\v 3 Because God has kindly appointed me to be his apostle, which I did not deserve, I say this to every one of you: Do not let what you think about yourselves exceed what is right for you to think! Instead, think about yourselves in a sensible way that corresponds to the abilities that God has given you because you trust in Christ.
\v 4 Although a person has one body, it consists of many parts. All of the parts are needed forthe body, but they do not all function the same way.
\v 5 Similarly we, although we are many, are united into one group because of our relationship with Christ, and we belong to one another. So no one should act as though he needed by God morethan the others!
\v 6 Instead, since each one of us can do various things that differ according to the abilities that God has given to us, we should do them diligently and cheerfully! Those whom God has enabled to speak messages from him should speak what corresponds to what they believe God told them.
\v 7 Those whom God has enabled to serve others should do that. Those whom God has enabled to teach his truth should do that.
\v 8 Those whom God has enabled to encourage should do it wholeheartedly. Those who help the needy should do it cheerfully.
\s Romans 12:9-18
\sr Love others sincerely in the various ways in which you act toward them.
\p
\v 9 The way you must love people is to love them sincerely! Hate what is evil! Continue to eagerly do what God considers to be good!
\v 10 Love one another as members of the same family do; and in regard to honoring one another, you should be the first ones to do it!
\v 11 Do not be lazy. Instead, be eager to serve God! Be enthusiastic as you serve the Lord!
\v 12 Rejoice because you are confidently awaiting what God will do for you! When you suffer, be patient! Keep praying and never give up!
\v 13 If any of God's people lacks anything, share with them what you have! Readily take care of travelers who need a place to stay!
\v 14 Ask God to be kind to those who persecute you because you believe in Jesus! Ask him to be kind to them; do not ask him to cause bad things to happen to them.
\v 15 If someone is joyful, you should rejoice also! If someone is sad, you should also be sad!
\v 16 Desire for others what you desire for yourselves . Do not consider yourselves wise.
\v 17 Do not do evil deeds to anyone who has done evil to you. Act in a way that all people will recognize as good!
\v 18 Live peacefully with other people whenever it is possible, to the extent that you can control the situation.
\s Romans 12:19-21
\sr Instead of avenging yourselves, allow God to avenge you; and instead of being overcome by evil done to you, overcome evil deeds by doing good to those who do evil to you, because this is what the Scriptures command.
\p
\v 19 My fellow believers whom I love, do not do evil in return when people do evil to you! Instead, allow God to punish them ,' says the Lord."
\v 20 Instead of doing evil to those who have done evil to you, do as the Scriptures teach: "If your."
\v 21 Do not let evil deeds that others have done to you overcome you Instead, overcome their evil deeds by doing good deeds to them!
