\c 13
\s Romans 13:1-7
\sr Be subject to civil authorities, because those who oppose them oppose what God has established and will bring punishment on themselves. Do what is good and then they will commend you. Give to all the authorities what you are obligated to give to them.
\p
\v 1 Every believer must be subject to civil officials. Remember that God is the only one who gives officials their authority. Furthermore, those officials that exist are ones who have been appointed by God .
\v 2 So whoever resists the officials is resisting what God has established. Furthermore, those who resist officials will bring on themselves from the officials the punishment that God considers fitting.
\v 3 What rulers do is not to cause people who do good deeds to be afraid. Instead, what they do is to cause people who do evil to be afraid. So, if any of you  do good, they will commend you instead of punishing you!
\v 4 It is in order to serve God by doing their work that every official exists, in order that they may benefit each of you. If any of you does what is evil, you! The officials exist to serve God. That is, they act as God's agents as they punish those who do evil.
\v 5 So, it is necessary for you if you disobey them, but also because you know within yourselvesthat you should be subject to them!
\v 6 It is for this reason that you also pay taxes, because the officials are ones who serve God as they continually do their work.
\v 7 Give to all the officials what you are supposed to give to them! Pay taxes to those who require that you pay taxes. Pay duties on goods to those who require that you pay those duties. Respect those who ought to be respected. Honor those who ought to be honored.
\s Romans 13:8-10
\sr Do not leave any debt unpaid. Your only continual obligation is to love one another, because doing so fulfills all that God's law requires.
\p
\v 8 Pay all of your debts when you are supposed to pay them. The only thing that is like a debt that you should never stop paying is to love one another. Whoever loves others has fulfilled all that God requires in his laws.
\v 9 There are many things that God commanded in his laws, such as do not commit adultery, do not murder anyone, do not steal, and do not desire anything that belongs to someone else. But the command by which they are all summed up  love yourself.
\v 10 If you love people with whom you come in contact . So, whoever loves others fulfills all that God's laws require.
\s Romans 13:11-14
\sr Because it is time for us to be fully alert and active, we must quit doing wicked deeds. We must do those things that will help us resist that which is evil, we must live properly, and we must be like Christ.
\p
\v 11 Do what I have just told you, especially since you know the significance of the time in which we are living. You know that it is time for you to be fully alert and active  when we first believed in Christ.
\v 12 Our time to live in this world , as soldiers who put on their armor in the daytime get ready to resist their enemies.
\v 13 We must behave properly, as though the time when Christ will return . We must not quarrel. We must not be jealous of other people.
\v 14 On the contrary, you self-directed nature desires.
