\c 15
\s Romans 15:1-4
\sr We should not be irritated by the practices of those who are uncertain whether God will condemn them for doing certain things that the Mosaic laws forbid. Instead, we should do things that please our fellow Christians, because Christ has set us an example.
\p
\v 1 Most of us are sure that God will not punish us for doing certain things that the laws and rituals God gave Moses said the Jews should not do. But we should be patient with those who are uncertain about such things, and we should not let them irritate us. We should not simply please ourselves.
\v 2 Each of us should do the things that please the fellow believers with whom we come in contact, and things that will benefit them. We should do those things in order to help them mature spiritually.
\v 3 We should please our fellow believers, since Christ has set us an example. He did not do things to please himself. On the contrary, he tried to please God even when others insulted him. That was as it is written , it was as though they were also insulting me."
\v 4 And you need to remember that what was written previously  to teach us in order that we would be patient and be encouraged by reading, Or: believing what they wrote. If we do that, we can confidently expect God to do for us all he has promised.
\s Romans 15:5-6
\sr May God enable you all to live harmoniously with each other.
\p
\v 5 God is the one who enables us to be patient and who encourages us. Ask him that he would enable you all to live harmoniously with each other, doing as Christ Jesus did.
\v 6 Then, as you are united in what you think and say  of our Lord Jesus Christ.
\s Romans 15:7-12
\sr Accept each other as Christ has accepted you, remembering that what Christ has done was both to help the Jews and to cause non-Jews to praise God.
\p
\v 7 So I say to all of you believers at Rome, accept each other. If you do that, people will praise God as they see you thus behaving like Christ. Accept each other just like Christ accepted you!
\v 8 I want you to remember that Christ helped us Jews . That is, his coming as our Messiah fulfilled what God promised to our Jewish ancestors.
\v 9 And by acting mercifully to them, he also caused the non-Jews to praise him. What he has done for the non-Jews fulfills what is written in the Scriptures that David said to God: "So I will praise you."
\v 10 David also wrote, "Rejoice, you non-Jews, with us who are God's people."
\v 11 And Moses wrote in the Scriptures, "Praise the Lord, all you non-Jews, and may everyone praise him ."
\v 12 And Isaiah wrote in the Scriptures, "There will be a descendant  of King David who will begin to rule the non-Jews. They will confidently expect him to fulfill what he has promised."
\s Romans 15:13
\sr May God make you completely joyful and peaceful in order that you may have abundant hope.
\p
\v 13 God is the one who causes you to be confidently expecting him to do what he has promised. I pray that he will cause you to be completely joyful and peaceful as you trust in him. As you do that, the Holy Spirit will enable you to more and more confidently expect to receive what God has promised you.
\s Romans 15:14-16
\sr I have written frankly to you in this letter because of what God has kindly commissioned me to do among the non-Jews.
\p
\v 14 My fellow believers, I myself am completely sure about you that you yourselves have acted toward others in a completely good way. You have done that because you have known completely all that God wants you to know  and because you are able to teach each other.
\v 15 However, I have written to you quite frankly in this letter about some things in order to remind you about those things. I have written this because I have been appointed by God , which I did not deserve,
\v 16 in order that I would work for Jesus Christ among the non-Jews. God has appointed me to act like a priest as I proclaim his good message in order that he will accept the non-Jews who believe in Christ. They will be like an offering .
\s Romans 15:17-21
\sr I am happy about my work for God that I have now completed in this region by proclaiming the gospel in places where people have not heard about Christ.
\p
\v 17 It follows that, because of my relationship with  Christ Jesus, I am happy about my work for God.
\v 18 I will speak boldly only  about the work that Christ has enabled me to do. I do that work in order that non-Jews might pay attention to the message about Christ as a result of what I have said and done,
\v 19 specifically, by my performing many powerful miracles . I have done those things as a result of God's Spirit powerfully enabling me. As a result of doing those things, while traveling all the way around from Jerusalem to Illyricum province, I have completed my work of proclaiming the message about Christ in those places.
\v 20 As I proclaim that message, I am always eagerly trying to proclaim it in places where people have not already heard about Christ. I do that in order that as I work for God I might not be continuing the work for him that someone else already started . I do not want to be like a man who builds a house on someone else's foundation.
\v 21 On the contrary, I teach non-Jews, so that what happens may be like what was written ."
\s Romans 15:22-29
\sr Because of this work, I have often been hindered from visiting you, but I hope to see you as I journey through your area and I hope that you will give me what I need for my next journey. But now I am about to go to Jerusalem to take funds to God's people there. So later I will visit you in Rome, and I know that Christ will bless us there.
\p
\v 22 Because I have attempted to preach the message about Christ in places where they have not heard about him, I have been hindered  many times from being able to visit you.
\v 23 But now there are no more places in these regions where people have not heard about Christ. Furthermore, for several years I have wanted to visit you.
\v 24 So I hope to go you will help me on my journey to Spain. But before I go there, I want to enjoy being with you for a little while, although I would like to stay with you longer.
\v 25 But I cannot visit you now, because I am about to go to Jerusalem in order to take money  for God's people there.
\v 26 The believers in Macedonia and Achaia provinces  for those of God's people in Jerusalem who are poor.
\v 27 They themselves decided to do this, but truly they owe something to God's people in Jerusalem. The non-Jewish believers benefited spiritually from Jewish believers as a result of hearing the message about Christ from them, so the non-Jews should also help the Jewish believers in Jerusalem by giving them material things .
\v 28 So when I have finished this task by safely delivering all this money  that the believers in Macedonia and Achaia have given, I will leave Jerusalem and visit you in Rome while I am on my way to Spain.
\v 29 And I know that when I visit you, Christ will abundantly bless us .
\s Romans 15:30-33
\sr I urge you to pray fervently that God will protect me from the unbelieving Jews in Judea and that God's people there will accept the money that I take to them, and also that I may be refreshed by visiting you. May God be with you all.
\p
\v 30 Because we belong to our Lord Jesus Christ and because the Spirit of God causes us to love each other, I urge you all that you help me by fervently praying to God for me.
\v 31 Pray that I will be protected  that I take to them.
\v 32 Pray these things in order that I may go with you.
\v 33 I pray that God, who causes us to have inner peace, will be with all of you and will help you. May it be so!
