\c 2
\nb
\v 1 And it came to pass in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, when wine was before him, that I
took up the wine, and gave it to the king. Now I had not been beforetime sad in his presence.
\v 2 And the king said to me, Why is your countenance sad, seeing you are not sick? this is nothing else but sorrow of heare.
Then I was very sore afraid.
\v 3 And I said to the king, Let the king live for ever: why should not my countenance be sad, when the city, the place of my
fathers’ sepulchres, lies waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire?
\v 4 Then the king said to me, For what do you make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven.
\v 5 And I said to the king, If it please the king, and if your servant have found favor in your sight, that you would send
me to Judah, to the city of my fathers’ sepulchres, that I may build it.
\v 6 And the king said to me (the queen also sitting by him), For how long shall your journey be? and when will you return?
So it pleased the king to send me; and I set him a time.
\v 7 Moreover I said to the king, If it please the king, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the River, that they
may let me pass through till I come to Judah;
\v 8 and a letter to Asaph the keeper of the king’s forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the
castle which pertains to the house, and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into. And the king
granted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me.
\p
\v 9 Then I came to the governors beyond the River, and gave them the king’s letters. Now the king had sent with me captains of
the army and horsemen.
\v 10 And when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly, for that
there was come a man to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.
\v 11 So I came to Jerusalem, and was there three days.
\v 12 And I arose in the night, I and some few men with me; neither told I any man what my God put into my heart to do for
Jerusalem; neither was there any beast with me, save the beast that I rode upon.
\v 13 And I went out by night by the valley gate, even toward the jackal’s well, and to the dung gate, and viewed the walls of
Jerusalem, which were broken down, and the gates thereof were consumed with fire.
\v 14 Then I went on to the fountain gate and to the king’s pool: but there was no place for the beast that was under me to
pass.
\v 15 Then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall; and I turned back, and entered by the valley gate, and so
returned.
\v 16 And the rulers knew not whither I went, or what I did; neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor
to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work.
\p
\v 17 Then said I to them, You see the evil case that we are in, how Jerusalem lies waste, and the gates thereof are burned
with fire: come, and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach.
\v 18 And I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me, as also of the king’s words that he had spoken to me. And
they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for the good
work.
\v 19 But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they laughed us
to scorn, and despised us, and said, What is this thing that you do? will you rebel against the king?
\v 20 Then answered I them, and said to them, The God of heaven, he will prosper us; therefore we his servants will arise and
build: but you have no portion, nor right, nor memorial, in Jerusalem.