\c 3
\p
\v 1 Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests, and they builded the sheep gate; they sanctified it,
and set up the doors of it; even to the tower of Hammeah they sanctified it, to the tower of Hananel.
\v 2 And next to him builded the men of Jericho. And next to them builded Zaccur the son of Imri.
\p
\v 3 And the fish gate did the sons of Hassenaah build; they laid the beams thereof, and set up the doors thereof, the bolts
thereof, and the bars thereof.
\v 4 And next to them repaired Meremoth the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz. And next to them repaired Meshullam the son of
Berechiah, the son of Meshezabel. And next to them repaired Zadok the son of Baana.
\v 5 And next to them the Tekoites repaired; but their nobles put not their necks to the work of their lord.
\p
\v 6 And the old gate repaired Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah; they laid the beams thereof, and
set up the doors thereof, and the bolts thereof, and the bars thereof.
\v 7 And next to them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah,
that appertained to the throne of the governor beyond the River.
\v 8 Next to him repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, goldsmiths. And next to him repaired Hananiah one of the perfumers,
and they fortified Jerusalem even to the broad wall.
\v 9 And next to them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem.
\v 10 And next to them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, over against his house. And next to him repaired Hattush the
son of Hashabneiah.
\v 11 Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hasshub the son of Pahath-moab, repaired another portion, and the tower of the furnaces.
\v 12 And next to him repaired Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, he and his
daughters.
\p
\v 13 The valley gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Zanoah; they built it, and set up the doors thereof, the bolts
thereof, and the bars thereof, and a thousand cubits of the wall to the dung gate.
\p
\v 14 And the dung gate repaired Malchijah the son of Rechab, the ruler of the district of Beth-haccherem; he built it, and set
up the doors thereof, the bolts thereof, and the bars thereof. p
\v 15 And the fountain gate repaired Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah; he built it, and covered
it, and set up the doors thereof, the bolts thereof, and the bars thereof, and the wall of the pool of Shelah by the king’s
garden, even to the stairs that go down from the city of David.
\v 16 After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of half the district of Beth-zur, to the place over against the
sepulchres of David, and to the pool that was made, and to the house of the mighty men.
\v 17 After him repaired the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani. Next to him repaired Hashabiah, the ruler of half the district
of Keilah, for his district.
\v 18 After him repaired their brethren, Bavvai the son of Henadad, the ruler of half the district of Keilah.
\v 19 And next to him repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, another portion, over against the ascent to the
armory at the turning of the wall.
\v 20 After him Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired another portion, from the turning
of the wall to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest.
\v 21 After him repaired Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz another portion, from the door of the house of Eliashib
even to the end of the house of Eliashib.
\v 22 And after him repaired the priests, the men of the Plain.
\v 23 After them repaired Benjamin and Hasshub over against their house. After them repaired Azariah the son of Maaseiah the
son of Ananiah beside his own house.
\v 24 After him repaired Binnui the son of Henadad another portion, from the house of Azariah to the turning
of the wall, and to the corner.
\v 25 Palal the son of Uzai repaired over against the turning
of the wall, and the tower that stands out from the upper house of the king, which is by the court of the guard.
After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh repaired.
\v 26 (Now the Nethinim lived in Ophel, to the place over against the water gate toward the east, and the tower that stands
out.)
\v 27 After him the Tekoites repaired another portion, over against the great tower that stands out, and to the wall of
Ophel.
\p
\v 28 Above the horse gate repaired the priests, every one over against his own house.
\v 29 After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer over against his own house. And after him repaired Shemaiah the son of
Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate.
\v 30 After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, another portion. After him repaired
Meshullam the son of Berechiah over against his chamber.
\v 31 After him repaired Malchijah one of the goldsmiths to the house of the Nethinim, and of the merchants, over against the
gate of Hammiphkad, and to the ascent of the corner.
\v 32 And between the ascent of the corner and the sheep gate repaired the goldsmiths and the merchants.