\c 5
\p
\v 1 Then there arose a great cry of the people and of their wives against their brethren the Jews.
\v 2 For there were that said, We, our sons and our daughters, are many: let us get grain, that we may eat and live.
\v 3 Some also there were that said, We are mortgaging our fields, and our vineyards, and our houses: let us get grain, because
of the dearth.
\v 4 There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king’s tribute
upon our fields and our vineyards.
\v 5 Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as their children: and, lo, we bring into bondage our sons
and our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought into bondage
already: neither is it in our power to help it; for other men have our fields and our vineyards.
\p
\v 6 And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.
\v 7 Then I consulted with myself, and contended with the nobles and the rulers, and said to them, You exact usury, every one
of his brother. And I held a great assembly against them.
\v 8 And I said to them, We after our ability have redeemed our brethren the Jews, that were sold to the nations; and would
you even sell your brethren, and should they be sold to us? Then held they their peace, and found never a word.
\v 9 Also I said, The thing that you do is not good: ought you not to walk in the fear of our God, because of the reproach of the
nations our enemies?
\v 10 And I likewise, my brethren and my servants, do lend them money and grain. I pray you, let us leave off this usury.
\v 11 Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their fields, their vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the
hundredth part of the money, and of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, that you exact of them.
\v 12 Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing of them; so will we do, even as you sayest. Then I called
the priests, and took an oath of them, that they would do according to this promise.
\v 13 Also I shook out my lap, and said, So God shake out every man from his house, and from his labor, that performeth not
this promise; even thus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the assembly said, Amen, and praised Jehovah. And the people did
according to this promise.
\p
\v 14 Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even to
the two and thirties year of Artaxerxes the king, that is, twelve years, I and my brethren have not eaten the bread
of the governor.
\v 15 But the former governors that were before me were chargeable to the people, and took of them bread and wine, besides
forty shekels of silver; yea, even their servants bare rule over the people: but so did not I, because of the fear of God.
\v 16 Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land: and all my servants were gathered there
to the work.
\v 17 Moreover there were at my table, of the Jews and the rulers, a hundred and fifty men, besides those that came to us
from among the nations that were round about us.
\v 18 Now that which was prepared for one day was one ox and six choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten
days store of all sorts of wine: yet for all this I demanded not the bread of the governor, because the bondage was heavy upon
this people.
\v 19 Remember to me, O my God, for good, all that I have done for this people.