\c 6
\p
\v 1 Now it came to pass, when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah, and to Geshem the Arabian, and to the rest of our
enemies, that I had builded the wall, and that there was no breach left therein (though even to that time I had not set up
the doors in the gates),
\v 2 that Sanballat and Geshem sent to me saying, Come, let us meet together in
one of the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.
\v 3 And I sent messengers to them, saying, I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease,
while I leave it, and come down to you?
\v 4 And they sent to me four times after this sort; and I answered them after the same manner.
\v 5 Then sent Sanballat his servant to me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand,
\v 6 wherein was written, It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu says it, that you and the Jews think to rebel; for
which cause you are building the wall: and you would be their king, according to these words.
\v 7 And you have also appointed prophets to preach of you at Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah: and now shall it
be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together.
\v 8 Then I sent to him, saying, There are no such things done as you sayest, but you feignest them out of your own heart.
\v 9 For they all would have made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not done. But now,
O God, strengthen you my hands.
\p
\v 10 And I went to the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meet
together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple: for they will come to kill thee; yea,
in the night will they come to kill thee.
\v 11 And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that, being such as I, would go into the temple to save his
life? I will not go in.
\v 12 And I discerned, and, lo, God had not sent him; but he pronounced this prophecy against me: and Tobiah and Sanballat had
hired him.
\v 13 For this cause was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and sin, and that they might have matter for an evil
report, that they might reproach me.
\v 14 Remember, O my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and also the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of
the prophets, that would have put me in fear.
\p
\v 15 So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of
the month Elul, in fifty and two days.
\v 16 And it came to pass, when all our enemies heard thereof, that all the nations that were about us feared, and
were much cast down in their own eyes; for they perceived that this work was wrought of our God.
\v 17 Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters to Tobiah, and
the letters of Tobiah came to them.
\v 18 For there were many in Judah sworn to him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah; and his son
Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah to wife.
\v 19 Also they spoke of his good deeds before me, and reported my words to him.
And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.