\c 9
\p
\v 1 Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackcloth, and
earth upon them.
\v 2 And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all foreigners, and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of
their fathers.
\v 3 And they stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of Jehovah their God a fourth part of the day; and
another fourth part they confessed, and worshipped Jehovah their God.
\v 4 Then stood up upon the stairs of the Levites, Jeshua, and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani,
and Chenani, and cried with a loud voice to Jehovah their God.
\p
\v 5 Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah,
and Pethahiah, said, Stand up and bless Jehovah your God from everlasting to everlasting; and blessed be your glorious
name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise.
\v 6 You are Jehovah, even you alone; you have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the eareh and all
things that are thereon, the seas and all that is in them, and you preservest them all; and the host of heaven worships
thee.
\v 7 You are Jehovah the God, who did choose Abram, and brought him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gave him the
name of Abraham,
\v 8 and found his heart faithful before thee, and made a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanite, the
Hittite, the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite, and the Girgashite, to give it to his seed, and have performed your
words; for you are righteous.
\p
\v 9 And you saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heard their cry by the Red Sea,
\v 10 and showedst signs and wonders upon Pharaoh, and on all his servants, and on all the people of his land; for you knew
that they dealt proudly against them, and did get you a name, as it is this day.
\v 11 And you did divide the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on the dry land; and their
pursuers you did cast into the depths, as a stone into the mighty waters.
\v 12 Moreover in a pillar of cloud you led them by day; and in a pillar of fire by night, to give them light in the way
wherein they should go.
\v 13 You came down also upon mount Sinai, and spoke with them from heaven, and gave them right ordinances and true
laws, good statutes and commandments,
\v 14 and made known to them your holy sabbath, and commanded them commandments, and statutes, and a law, by Moses your
servant,
\v 15 and gave them bread from heaven for their hunger, and brought forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst,
and commanded them that they should go in to possess the land which you had sworn to give them.
\p
\v 16 But they and our fathers dealt proudly, and hardened their neck, and listened not to your commandments,
\v 17 and refused to obey, neither were mindful of your wonders that you did among them, but hardened their neck, and in
their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage. But you are a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow
to anger, and abundant in lovingkindness, and forsookest them not.
\v 18 Yea, when they had made them a molten calf, and said, This is your God that brought you up out of Egypt, and had wrought
great provocations;
\v 19 yet you in your manifold mercies forsookest them not in the wilderness: the pillar of cloud departed not from over them
by day, to lead them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night, to show them light, and the way wherein they should go.
\v 20 You gave also your good Spirit to instruct them, and withheldest not your manna from their mouth, and gave them water
for their thirst.
\v 21 Yea, forty years did you sustain them in the wilderness,
and they lacked nothing; their clothes waxed not old, and their feet swelled not.
\v 22 Moreover you gave them kingdoms and peoples, which you did allot after their portions: so they possessed the land
of Sihon, even the land of the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og king of Bashan.
\v 23 Their children also multipliedst you as the stars of heaven, and brought them into the land concerning which you
did say to their fathers, that they should go in to possess it.
\v 24 So the children went in and possessed the land, and you subduedst before them the inhabitants of the land, the
Canaanites, and gave them into their hands, with their kings, and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as
they would.
\v 25 And they took fortified cities, and a fat land, and possessed houses full of all good things, cisterns hewn out,
vineyards, and oliveyards, and fruit-trees in abundance: so they did eat, and were filled, and became fat, and delighted
themselves in your great goodness.
\p
\v 26 Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against thee, and cast your law behind their back, and killed your prophets
that testified against them to turn them again to thee, and they wrought great provocations.
\v 27 Therefore you delivered them into the hand of their adversaries, who distressed them: and in the time of their
trouble, when they cried to thee, you heard from heaven; and according to your manifold mercies you gave them saviours
who saved them out of the hand of their adversaries.
\v 28 But after they had rest, they did evil again before thee; therefore left you them in the hand of their enemies, so
that they had the dominion over them: yet when they returned, and cried to thee, you heard from heaven; and many times
did you deliver them according to your mercies,
\v 29 and testifiedst against them, that you might bring them again to your law. Yet they dealt proudly, and listened not
to your commandments, but sinned against your ordinances (which if a man do, he shall live in them), and withdrew the
shoulder, and hardened their neck, and would not hear.
\v 30 Yet many years did you bear with them, and testifiedst against them by your Spirit through your prophets: yet would they
not give ear: therefore gave you them into the hand of the peoples of the lands.
\v 31 Nevertheless in your manifold mercies you did not make a full end of them, nor forsake them; for you are a gracious
and merciful God.
\p
\v 32 Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the terrible God, who keep covenant and lovingkindness, let not all
the travail seem little before thee, that has come upon us, on our kings, on our princes, and on our priests, and on our
prophets, and on our fathers, and on all your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria to this day.
\v 33 Howbeit you are just in all that is come upon us; for you have dealt truly, but we have done wickedly;
\v 34 neither have our kings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers, kept your law, nor listened to your commandments and
your testimonies wherewith you did testify against them.
\v 35 For they have not served you in their kingdom, and in your great goodness that you gave them, and in the large and fat
land which you gave before them, neither turned they from their wicked works.
\v 36 Behold, we are servants this day, and as for the land that you gave to our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and the
good thereof, behold, we are servants in it.
\v 37 And it yieldeth much increase to the kings whom you have set over us because of our sins: also they have power over
our bodies, and over our cattle, at their pleasure, and we are in great distress.
\v 38 And yet for all this we make a sure covenant, and write it; and our princes, our Levites,
and our priests, seal to it.