\c 13
\p
\v 1 On that day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the people; and therein was found written, that an Ammonite
and a Moabite should not enter into the assembly of God for ever,
\v 2 because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water, but hired Balaam against them, to curse them:
howbeit our God turned the curse into a blessing.
\v 3 And it came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.
\p
\v 4 Now before this, Eliashib the priest, who was appointed over the chambers of the house of our God, being allied to
Tobiah,
\v 5 had prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid the meal-offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and
the tithes of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, which were given by commandment to the Levites, and the singers, and the
porters; and the heave-offerings for the priests.
\v 6 But in all this time I was not at Jerusalem; for in the two and thirties year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon I
went to the king: and after certain days asked I leave of the king,
\v 7 and I came to Jerusalem, and understood the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, in preparing him a chamber in the
courts of the house of God.
\v 8 And it grieved me sore: therefore I cast forth all the household stuff of Tobiah out of the chamber.
\v 9 Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and there brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the
meal-offerings and the frankincense.
\p
\v 10 And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them; so that the Levites and the singers, that did
the work, were fled every one to his field.
\v 11 Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I gathered them together, and set them
in their place.
\v 12 Then brought all Judah the tithe of the grain and the new wine and the oil to the treasuries.
\v 13 And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and
next to them was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah; for they were counted faithful, and their business was to
distribute to their brethren.
\v 14 Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wipe not out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for
the observances thereof.
\p
\v 15 In those days saw I in Judah some men treading wine presses on the sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading asses
therewith; as also wine, grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the
sabbath day: and I testified against them in the day wherein they sold victuals.
\v 16 There lived men of Tyre also therein, who brought in fish, and all manner of wares, and sold on the sabbath to the
children of Judah, and in Jerusalem.
\v 17 Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said to them, What evil thing is this that you do, and profane the
sabbath day?
\v 18 Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us, and upon this city? yout you bring more wrath
upon Israel by profaning the sabbath.
\p
\v 19 And it came to pass that, when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the sabbath, I commanded that the doors
should be shut, and commanded that they should not be opened till after the sabbath: and some of my servants set I over the
gates, that there should no burden be brought in on the sabbath day.
\v 20 So the merchants and sellers of all kind of wares lodged without Jerusalem once or twice.
\v 21 Then I testified against them, and said to them, Why lodge you about the wall? if you do so again, I will lay hands on
you. From that time forth came they no more on the sabbath.
\v 22 And I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves, and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify
the sabbath day. Remember to me, O my God, this also, and spare me according to the greatness of your lovingkindness.
\p
\v 23 In those days also saw I the Jews that had married women of Ashdod, of Ammon,
and of Moab:
\v 24 and their children spoke half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews’ language, but according to the
language of each people.
\v 25 And I contended with them, and cursed them, and struck certain of them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by
God, saying, You shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons, or for
yourselves.
\v 26 Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? yet among many nations was there no king like him, and he was beloved
of his God, and God made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him did foreign women cause to sin.
\v 27 Shall we then listen to you to do all this great evil, to trespass against our God in marrying foreign women?
\p
\v 28 And one of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I
chased him from me.
\v 29 Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the
Levites.
\p
\v 30 Thus cleansed I them from all foreigners, and appointed charges for the priests and for the Levites, every one in his
work;
\v 31 and for the wood-offering, at times appointed, and for the first-fruits. Remember me, O my God, for good.