\c 1
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass in the days when the judges judged, that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of
Beth-lehem-judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.
\v 2 And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion,
Ephrathites of Beth-lehem-judah. And they came into the country of Moab, and continued there.
\v 3 And Elimelech, Naomi’s husband, died; and she was left, and her two sons.
\v 4 And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they
lived there about ten years.
\v 5 And Mahlon and Chilion died both of them; and the woman was left of her two children and of her husband.
\p
\v 6 Then she arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country
of Moab how that Jehovah had visited his people in giving them bread.
\v 7 And she went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters-in-law with her; and they went on the way to
return to the land of Judah.
\v 8 And Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each of you to her mother’s house: Jehovah deal kindly with you,
as you have dealt with the dead, and with me.
\v 9 Jehovah grant you that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up
their voice, and wept.
\v 10 And they said to her, Nay, but we will return with you to your people.
\v 11 And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will you go with me? have I yout sons in my womb, that they may be your
husbands?
\v 12 Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say, I have hope, if I should even
have a husband to-night, and should also bear sons;
\v 13 would you therefore wait till they were grown? would you therefore stay from having husbands? nay, my daughters, for it
grieves me much for your sakes, for the hand of Jehovah is gone forth against me.
\v 14 And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave to her.
\p
\v 15 And she said, Behold, your sister-in-law is gone back to her people, and to her god: return you after your
sister-in-law.
\v 16 And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, and to return from following after thee, for whither you goest, I will go;
and where you lodgest, I will lodge; your people shall be my people, and your God my God;
\v 17 where you diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: Jehovah do so to me, and more also, if anything but death part
you and me.
\v 18 And when she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, she left off speaking to her.
\p
\v 19 So they two went until they came to Beth-lehem. And it came to pass, when they were come to Beth-lehem, that all the city
was moved about them, and the women said, Is this Naomi?
\v 20 And she said to them, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara; for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me.
\v 21 I went out full, and Jehovah has brought me home again empty; why call you me Naomi, seeing Jehovah has testified
against me, and the Almighty has afflicted me?
\v 22 So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned out of the country of Moab: and
they came to Beth-lehem in the beginning of barley harvest.