\c 2
\p
\v 1 And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband’s, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz.
\v 2 And Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, Let me now go to the field, and glean among the ears of grain after him in whose
sight I shall find favor. And she said to her, Go, my daughter.
\v 3 And she went, and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers: and her hap was to light on the portion of the field
belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech.
\v 4 And, behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said to the reapers, Jehovah be with you. And they answered him, Jehovah
bless thee.
\v 5 Then said Boaz to his servant that was set over the reapers, Whose damsel is this?
\v 6 And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said, It is the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out
of the country of Moab:
\v 7 and she said, Let me glean, I pray you, and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came, and has continued
even from the morning until now, save that she tarried a little in the house.
\p
\v 8 Then said Boaz to Ruth, Hearest you not, my daughter? Go not to glean in another field, neither pass from hence, but
abide here fast by my maidens.
\v 9 Let your eyes be on the field that they do reap, and go you after them: have I not charged the young men that they shall
not touch thee? and when you are athirst, go to the vessels, and drink of that which the young men have drawn.
\v 10 Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your sight, that
you should take knowledge of me, seeing I am a foreigner?
\v 11 And Boaz answered and said to her, It has fully been showed me, all that you have done to your mother-in-law since
the death of your husband; and how you have left your father and your mother, and the land of your nativity, and are come to a
people that you knew not heretofore.
\v 12 Jehovah recompense your work, and a full reward be given you of Jehovah, the God of Israel, under whose wings you are
come to take refuge.
\v 13 Then she said, Let me find favor in your sight, my lord, for that you have comforted me, and for that you have spoken
kindly to your handmaid, though I be not as one of your handmaidens.
\p
\v 14 And at meal-time Boaz said to her, Come hither, and eat of the bread, and dip your morsel in the vinegar. And she sat
beside the reapers, and they reached her parched grain, and she did eat, and was sufficed, and left thereof.
\v 15 And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and
reproach her not.
\v 16 And also pull out some for her from the bundles, and leave it, and let her glean, and rebuke her not.
\p
\v 17 So she gleaned in the field until even; and she beat out that which she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah of barley.
\v 18 And she took it up, and went into the city; and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned: and she brought forth and
gave to her that which she had left after she was sufficed.
\v 19 And her mother-in-law said to her, Where have you gleaned to-day? and where have you wrought? blessed be he that did
take knowledge of thee. And she showed her mother-in-law with whom she had wrought, and said, The man’s name with whom I
wrought today is Boaz.
\v 20 And Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of Jehovah, who has not left off his kindness to the living and
to the dead. And Naomi said to her, The man is near of kin to us, one of our near kinsmen.
\v 21 And Ruth the Moabitess said, Yea, he said to me, You shall keep fast by my young men, until they have ended all my
harvest.
\v 22 And Naomi said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his maidens, and that they
meet you not in any other field.
\v 23 So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz, to glean to the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and she lived with
her mother-in-law.