\c 3
\p
\v 1 And Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee?
\v 2 And now is not Boaz our kinsman, with whose maidens you wast? Behold, he winnoweth barley tonight in the
threshing-floor.
\v 3 Wash yourself therefore, and anoint you, and put your raiment upon you, and get you down to the threshing-floor, but make
not yourself known to the man, until he shall have done eating and drinking.
\v 4 And it shall be, when he lies down, that you shall mark the place where he shall lie, and you shall go in, and uncover
his feet, and lay you down; and he will tell you what you shall do.
\v 5 And she said to her, All that you say I will do.
\p
\v 6 And she went down to the threshing-floor, and did according to all that her mother-in-law bade her.
\v 7 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain: and she
came softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid her down.
\v 8 And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, and turned himself; and, behold, a woman lay at his feet.
\v 9 And he said, Who are thou? And she answered, I am Ruth your handmaid: spread therefore your skirt over your handmaid; for
you are a near kinsman.
\v 10 And he said, Blessed be you of Jehovah, my daughter: you have showed more kindness in the latter end than at the
beginning, inasmuch as you followedst not young men, whether poor or rich.
\v 11 And now, my daughter, fear not; I will do to you all that you sayest; for all the city of my people does know that you
are a worthy woman.
\v 12 And now it is true that I am a near kinsman; howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I.
\v 13 Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform to you the part of a kinsman, well; let him
do the kinsman’s part: but if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee, as
Jehovah liveth: lie down until the morning.
\p
\v 14 And she lay at his feet until the morning: and she rose up before one could discern another. For he said, Let it not be
known that the woman came to the threshing-floor.
\v 15 And he said, Bring the mantle that is upon thee, and hold it; and she held it; and he measured six
measures of barley, and laid it on her: and he went into the city.
\v 16 And when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, Who are thou, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done
to her.
\v 17 And she said, These six measures of barley gave he me; for he said, Go not empty to your mother-in-law.
\v 18 Then said she, Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter will fall; for the man will not rest, until he have
finished the thing this day.