\c 4
\p
\v 1 Now Boaz went up to the gate, and sat him down there: and, behold, the near kinsman of whom Boaz spoke came by; to whom
he said, Ho, such a one! turn aside, sit down here. And he turned aside, and sat down.
\v 2 And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit you down here. And they sat down.
\v 3 And he said to the near kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the country of Moab, selleth the parcel of land, which
was our brother Elimelech’s:
\v 4 and I thought to disclose it to thee, saying, Buy it before them that sit here, and before the elders of my people. If
you will redeem it, redeem it: but if you will not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know; for there is none to redeem it
besides thee; and I am after thee. And he said, I will redeem it.
\v 5 Then said Boaz, What day you buyest the field of the hand of Naomi, you must buy it also of Ruth the Moabitess, the wife
of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance.
\v 6 And the near kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar mine own inheritance: take you my right of
redemption on thee; for I cannot redeem it.
\p
\v 7 Now this was the custom in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning exchanging, to confirm all
things: a man drew off his shoe, and gave it to his neighbor; and this was the
manner of attestation in Israel.
\v 8 So the near kinsman said to Boaz, Buy it for thyself. And he drew off his shoe.
\v 9 And Boaz said to the elders, and to all the people, You are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was
Elimelech’s, and all that was Chilion’s and Mahlon’s, of the hand of Naomi.
\v 10 Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon
his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren, and from the gate of his place: you are
witnesses this day.
\v 11 And all the people that were in the gate, and the elders, said, We are witnesses. Jehovah make the woman that is come
into your house like Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the house of Israel: and do you worthily in Ephrathah, and be
famous in Bethlehem:
\v 12 and let your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bare to Judah, of the seed which Jehovah shall give you of
this young woman.
\p
\v 13 So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife; and he went in to her, and Jehovah gave her conception, and she bare a son.
\v 14 And the women said to Naomi, Blessed be Jehovah, who has not left you this day without a near kinsman; and let his
name be famous in Israel.
\v 15 And he shall be to you a restorer of life, and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you,
who is better to you than seven sons, has borne him.
\v 16 And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse to it.
\v 17 And the women her neighbors gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi; and they called his name Obed: he is
the father of Jesse, the father of David.
\p
\v 18 Now these are the generations of Perez: Perez became the father of Hezron,
\v 19 and Hezron became the father of Ram, and Ram became the father of Amminadab,
\v 20 and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon became the father of Salmon,
\v 21 and Salmon became the father of Boaz, and Boaz became the father of Obed,
\v 22 and Obed became the father of Jesse, and Jesse became the father of David.