\c 1
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.
\p
\v 2 Hear this, you old men, and give ear, all you inhabitants of the land. Hath this been in your days, or in the days of your
fathers?
\v 3 Tell you your children of it, and let your children
tell their children, and their children another generation.
\v 4 That which the palmer-worm has left has the locust eaten; and that which the locust has left has the canker-worm
eaten; and that which the canker-worm has left has the caterpillar eaten.
\p
\v 5 Awake, you drunkards, and weep; and wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine; for it is cut off from your
mouth.
\v 6 For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number; his teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he has the
jaw teeth of a lioness.
\v 7 He has laid my vine waste, and barked my fig-tree: he has made it clean bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are
made white.
\p
\v 8 Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth.
\v 9 The meal-offering and the drink-offering are cut off from the house of Jehovah; the priests, Jehovah’s ministers, mourn.
\v 10 The field is laid waste, the land mourneth; for the grain is destroyed, the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth.
\v 11 Be confounded, O you husbandmen, wail, O you vinedressers, for the wheat and for the barley; for the harvest of the field
is perished.
\v 12 The vine is withered, and the fig tree languisheth; the pomegranate-tree, the palm tree also, and the apple-tree, even
all the trees of the field are withered: for joy is withered away from the sons of men.
\p
\v 13 Gird yourselves with sackcloth, and lament, you priests; wail, you ministers of the altar; come, lie all night in
sackcloth, you ministers of my God: for the meal-offering and the drink-offering are withholden from the house of your God.
\v 14 Sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the old men
and all the inhabitants of the land to the house of Jehovah your God, and cry to Jehovah.
\p
\v 15 Alas for the day! for the day of Jehovah is at hand, and as destruction from the Almighty shall it come.
\v 16 Is not the food cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and gladness from the house of our God?
\v 17 The seeds rot under their clods; the garners are laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the grain is withered.
\v 18 How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed, because they have no pasture; yea, the flocks of sheep are
made desolate.
\v 19 O Jehovah, to you do I cry; for the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame has burned all the
trees of the field.
\v 20 Yea, the beasts of the field pant to thee; for the water brooks are dried up, and the fire has devoured the pastures
of the wilderness.