\c 2
\p
\v 1 Blow you the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain; let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the
day of Jehovah cometh, for it is near at hand;
\v 2 a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, as the dawn spread upon the mountains; a great
people and a strong; there has not been ever the like, neither shall be any more after them, even to the years of many
generations.
\v 3 A fire devours before them; and behind them a flame burneth: the land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind
them a desolate wilderness; yea, and none has escaped them.
\p
\v 4 The appearance of them is as the appearance of horses; and as horsemen, so do they run.
\v 5 Like the noise of chariots on the tops of the mountains do they leap, like the noise of a flame of fire that devours the
stubble, as a strong people set in battle array.
\v 6 At their presence the peoples are in anguish; all faces are waxed pale.
\v 7 They run like mighty men; they climb the wall like men of war; and they march every one on his ways, and they break not
their ranks.
\v 8 Neither does one thrust another; they march every one in his path; and they burst through the weapons, and break not off
their course.
\v 9 They leap upon the city; they run upon the wall; they climb up into the houses; they enter in at the windows like a thief.
\v 10 The earth quaketh before them; the heavens tremble; the sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their
shining.
\v 11 And Jehovah utters his voice before his army; for his camp is very great; for he is strong that executes his word; for
the day of Jehovah is great and very terrible; and who can abide it?
\p
\v 12 Yet even now, says Jehovah, turn you to me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning:
\v 13 and rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn to Jehovah your God; for he is gracious and merciful, slow to
anger, and abundant in lovingkindness, and repenteth him of the evil.
\v 14 Who knows whether he will not turn and repent, and leave a blessing behind him, even a meal-offering and a
drink-offering to Jehovah your God?
\p
\v 15 Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly;
\v 16 gather the people, sanctify the assembly, assemble the old men, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts; let
the bridegroom go forth from his chamber, and the bride out of her closet.
\v 17 Let the priests, the ministers of Jehovah, weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare your people, O
Jehovah, and give not your heritage to reproach, that the nations should rule over them: wherefore should they say among the
peoples, Where is their God?
\v 18 Then was Jehovah jealous for his land, and had pity on his people.
\v 19 And Jehovah answered and said to his people, Behold, I will send you grain, and new wine, and oil, and you shall be
satisfied therewith; and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations;
\v 20 but I will remove far off from you the northern army, and will drive it into a land barren and desolate, its
forepart into the eastern sea, and its hinder part into the western sea; and its stench shall come up, and its ill savor shall
come up, because it has done great things.
\p
\v 21 Fear not, O land, be glad and rejoice; for Jehovah has done great things.
\v 22 Be not afraid, you beasts of the field; for the pastures of the wilderness do spring, for the tree bears its fruit, the
fig tree and the vine do yield their strength.
\v 23 Be glad then, you children of Zion, and rejoice in Jehovah your God; for he gives you the former rain in just measure,
and he causes to come down for you the rain, the former rain and the latter rain, in the first
month.
\v 24 And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shall overflow with new wine and oil.
\v 25 And I will restore to you the years that the locust has eaten, the canker-worm, and the caterpillar, and the
palmer-worm, my great army which I sent among you.
\v 26 And you shall eat in plenty and be satisfied, and shall praise the name of Jehovah your God, that has dealt wondrously
with you; and my people shall never be put to shame.
\v 27 And you shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am Jehovah your God, and there is none else; and my people
shall never be put to shame.
\p
\v 28 And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters
shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions:
\v 29 and also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my Spirit.
\v 30 And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth: blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke.
\v 31 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terrible day of Jehovah cometh.
\v 32 And it shall come to pass, that whoever shall call on the name of Jehovah shall be delivered; for in mount Zion and in
Jerusalem there shall be those that escape, as Jehovah has said, and among the remnant those whom Jehovah does call.