\c 3
\p
\v 1 For, behold, in those days, and in that time, when I shall bring back the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem,
\v 2 I will gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat; and I will execute judgment upon them
there for my people and for my heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations: and they have parted my land,
\v 3 and have cast lots for my people, and have given a boy for a harlot, and sold a girl for wine, that they may drink.
\v 4 Yea, and what are you to me, O Tyre, and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? will you render me a recompense? and if you
recompense me, swiftly and speedily will I return your recompense upon your own head.
\v 5 Forasmuch as you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried into your temples my goodly precious things,
\v 6 and have sold the children of Judah and the children of Jerusalem to the sons of the Grecians, that you may remove them
far from their border;
\v 7 behold, I will stir them up out of the place whither you have sold them, and will return your recompense upon your own
head;
\v 8 and I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the children of Judah, and they shall sell them to the men
of Sheba, to a nation far off: for Jehovah has spoken it.
\p
\v 9 Proclaim you this among the nations; prepare war; stir up the mighty men; let all the men of war draw near, let them come
up.
\v 10 Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning-hooks into spears: let the weak say, I am strong.
\v 11 Haste you, and come, all you nations round about, and gather yourselves together: there cause your mighty ones to come
down, O Jehovah.
\v 12 Let the nations bestir themselves, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat; for there will I sit to judge all the
nations round about.
\v 13 Put you in the sickle; for the harvest is ripe: come, tread you; for the winepress is full, the vats overflow; for their
wickedness is great.
\p
\v 14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! for the day of Jehovah is near in the valley of decision.
\v 15 The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
\v 16 And Jehovah will roar from Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: but
Jehovah will be a refuge to his people, and a stronghold to the children of Israel.
\v 17 So shall you know that I am Jehovah your God, dwelling in Zion my holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there
shall no strangers pass through her any more.
\p
\v 18 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the mountains shall drop down sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk,
and all the brooks of Judah shall flow with waters; and a fountain shall come forth from the house of Jehovah, and shall water
the valley of Shittim.
\v 19 Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness, for the violence done to the children of Judah,
because they have shed innocent blood in their land.
\v 20 But Judah shall abide for ever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation.
\v 21 And I will cleanse their blood, that I have not cleansed: for Jehovah lives in Zion.