\c 2
\p
\v 1 After these things, when the wrath of king Ahasuerus was pacified, he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, and what
was decreed against her.
\v 2 Then said the king’s servants that ministered to him, Let there be fair young virgins sought for the king:
\v 3 and let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather together all the fair young
virgins to Shushan the palace, to the house of the women, to the custody of Hegai the king’s chamberlain, keeper of the
women; and let their things for purification be given them;
\v 4 and let the maiden that pleases the king be queen instead of Vashti. And the thing pleased the king; and he did so.
\p
\v 5 There was a certain Jew in Shushan the palace, whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of
Kish, a Benjamite,
\v 6 who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captives that had been carried away with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away.
\v 7 And he brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle’s daughter: for she had neither father nor mother, and the maiden
was fair and beautiful; and when her father and mother were dead, Mordecai took her for his own daughter.
\p
\v 8 So it came to pass, when the king’s commandment and his decree was heard, and when many maidens were gathered together
to Shushan the palace, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was taken into the king’s house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper
of the women.
\v 9 And the maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness of him; and he speedily gave her her things for purification, with
her portions, and the seven maidens who were meet to be given her out of the king’s house: and he removed her and her maidens
to the best place of the house of the women.
\v 10 Esther had not made known her people nor her kindred; for Mordecai had charged her that she should not make it known.
\v 11 And Mordecai walked every day before the court of the women’s house, to know how Esther did, and what would become of
her.
\p
\v 12 Now when the turn of every maiden was come to go in to king Ahasuerus, after that it had been done to her according to
the law for the women twelve months (for so were the days of their purifications accomplished,
to wit, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet odors and with the things for the purifying of the
women),
\v 13 then in this wise came the maiden to the king: Whatsoever she desired was given her to go with her out of the house of
the women to the king’s house.
\v 14 In the evening she went, and on the morrow she returned into the second house of the women, to the custody of Shaashgaz,
the king’s chamberlain, who kept the concubines: she came in to the king no more, except the king delighted in her, and she
were called by name.
\v 15 Now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, was come
to go in to the king, she required nothing but what Hegai the king’s chamberlain, the keeper of the women, appointed. And
Esther obtained favor in the sight of all them that looked upon her.
\p
\v 16 So Esther was taken to king Ahasuerus into his house royal in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the
seventh year of his reign.
\v 17 And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained favor and kindness in his sight more than all the
virgins; so that he set the royal crown upon her head, and made her queen instead of Vashti.
\v 18 Then the king made a great feast to all his princes and his servants, even Esther’s feast; and he made a release to the
provinces, and gave gifts, according to the bounty of the king.
\p
\v 19 And when the virgins were gathered together the second time, then Mordecai was sitting in the king’s gate.
\v 20 Esther had not yet made known her kindred nor her people; as Mordecai had charged her: for Esther did the commandment of
Mordecai, like as when she was brought up with him.
\v 21 In those days, while Mordecai was sitting in the king’s gate, two of the king’s chamberlains, Bigthan and Teresh, of
those that kept the threshold, were wroth, and sought to lay hands on the king Ahasuerus.
\v 22 And the thing became known to Mordecai, who showed it to Esther the queen; and Esther told the king
thereof in Mordecai’s name.
\v 23 And when inquisition was made of the matter, and it was found to be so, they were both hanged on a tree: and it was
written in the book of the chronicles before the king.