\c 5
\p
\v 1 Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on her royal apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king’s
house, over against the king’s house: and the king sat upon his royal throne in the royal house, over against the entrance of
the house.
\v 2 And it was so, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, that she obtained favor in his sight; and the
king held out to Esther the golden sceptre that was in his hand. So Esther drew near, and touched the top of the sceptre.
\v 3 Then said the king to her, What will thou, queen Esther? and what is your request? it shall be given you even to the
half of the kingdom.
\v 4 And Esther said, If it seem good to the king, let the king and Haman come this day to the banquet that I have prepared
for him.
\p
\v 5 Then the king said, Cause Haman to make haste, that it may be done as Esther has said. So the king and Haman came to the
banquet that Esther had prepared.
\v 6 And the king said to Esther at the banquet of wine, What is your petition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is your
request? even to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed.
\v 7 Then answered Esther, and said, My petition and my request is:
\v 8 if I have found favor in the sight of the king, and if it please the king to grant my petition, and to perform my request,
let the king and Haman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and I will do to-morrow as the king has said.
\p
\v 9 Then went Haman forth that day joyful and glad of heart: but when Haman saw Mordecai in the king’s gate, that he stood not
up nor moved for him, he was filled with wrath against Mordecai.
\v 10 Nevertheless Haman refrained himself, and went home; and he sent and fetched his friends and Zeresh his wife.
\v 11 And Haman recounted to them the glory of his riches, and the multitude of his children, and all the things wherein the
king had promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the king.
\v 12 Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let no man come in with the king to the banquet that she had prepared
but myself; and to-morrow also am I invited by her together with the king.
\v 13 Yet all this avails me nothing, so long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king’s gate.
\v 14 Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends to him, Let a gallows be made fifty cubits high, and in the morning speak
you to the king that Mordecai may be hanged thereon: then go you in merrily with the king to the banquet. And the thing
pleased Haman; and he caused the gallows to be made.