\c 6
\p
\v 1 On that night could not the king sleep; and he commanded to bring the book of records of the chronicles, and they were
read before the king.
\v 2 And it was found written, that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king’s chamberlains, of those that
kept the threshold, who had sought to lay hands on the king Ahasuerus.
\v 3 And the king said, What honor and dignity has been bestowed on Mordecai for this? Then said the king’s servants that
ministered to him, There is nothing done for him.
\v 4 And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman was come into the outward court of the king’s house, to speak to the
king to hang Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.
\v 5 And the king’s servants said to him, Behold, Haman stands in the court. And the king said, Let him come in.
\v 6 So Haman came in. And the king said to him, What shall be done to the man whom the king delights to honor? Now Haman
said in his heart, To whom would the king delight to do honor more than to myself?
\v 7 And Haman said to the king, For the man whom the king delights to honor,
\v 8 let royal apparel be brought which the king uses to wear, and the horse that the king rideth upon, and on the head of
which a crown royal is set:
\v 9 and let the apparel and the horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king’s most noble princes, that they may array
the man therewith whom the king delights to honor, and cause him to ride on horseback through the street of the city, and
proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.
\p
\v 10 Then the king said to Haman, Make havee, and take the apparel and the horse, as you have said, and do even so to
Mordecai the Jew, that sits at the king’s gate: let nothing fail of all that you have spoken.
\v 11 Then took Haman the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and caused him to ride through the street of the city,
and proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.
\v 12 And Mordecai came again to the king’s gate. But Haman hasted to his house, mourning and having his head covered.
\v 13 And Haman recounted to Zeresh his wife and all his friends everything that had befallen him. Then said his wise men and
Zeresh his wife to him, If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, be of the seed of the Jews, you shall not prevail
against him, but shall surely fall before him.
\v 14 While they were yet talking with him, came the king’s chamberlains, and hasted to bring Haman to the banquet that
Esther had prepared.