\c 3
\s 1 Peter 3:1-6
\sr You women should submit yourselves to your husbands, even if they are not believers, and make your inner beings beautiful with qualities that will not fade away.
\p
\v 1 You women  believers, just like  slaves should submit themselves to their masters, submit yourselves to your husbands. Do that in order that if any of them do not believe the message  about Christ, they may become believers without  it being necessary for you to say anything to them  about their relationship to God. 
\v 2  They will believe in Christ when they see that you respect them and that your way of life is pure. 
\v 3 Do not be  trying to make yourselves beautiful by decorating the outside  of your bodies, such as by the way you comb your hair or by wearing gold jewelry and fine clothes. 
\v 4 Instead, make your inner beings that will not fade away. Specifically, have a humble and quiet, Or: calm attitude, which is something that God considers to be very valuable. 
\v 5 The devout women who lived long ago and who trusted in God made themselves beautiful  by having attitudes like that, and by being submissive to their husbands. 
\v 6 Sarah, for example, obeyed  her husband Abraham and called him 'my master'. You will be  as though you are  her daughters if you do what is right and are not afraid  of what your husbands or anyone else may do to you because you are believers.
\s 1 Peter 3:7
\sr You men must live in an appropriate way with your wives, so that nothing will hinder your prayers.
\p
\v 7 You men  who are believers, just like your wives should respect you, you should conduct your lives in an appropriate way with them. Treat them respectfully, realizing that they are  usually weaker than you are, and realizing that they share with you.
\s 1 Peter 3:8-12
\sr Agree with each other, love each other, be humble, and bless those who do evil to you instead of retaliating.
\p
\v 8 To end  this part of my letter, I say to all of you, agree with each other  in what you think. Be sympathetic  toward each other. Love  each other as members of the same family  should. Act compassionately  toward each other. Be humble. 
\v 9  When people do evil things to you or insult you, do not retaliate to do, in order that you may receive a blessing  from him. 
\v 10  Consider what the Psalmist wrote about the proper way of conducting our lives,
\q As for those who want to enjoy life and experience good  things happening to them every day, 
\q they must not speak  words that deceive others. 
\q
\v 11 They must continually turn away from  doing evil, and must do what is good  instead. 
\q They must deeply desire to enable  people to act peacefully toward each other; 
\q they must zealously  urge people to act in a peaceful way, 
\q
\v 12 because the Lord sees  what they do. 
\q He listens to righteous people when they pray  and he answers them. 
\q But he is  opposed to those who do evil.
\s 1 Peter 3:13-22
\sr Do good to others, even if you suffer for doing it, as Christ did.
\p
\v 13 If you are eager 
\v 14 But even if you suffer because of  doing what is right, God will bless you. Do as Isaiah wrote: 'Do not be afraid of people who threaten you what they  might do to you.' 
\v 15 Instead, acknowledge in your inner beings that Christ is the one who is in complete control  of your lives. Always be ready to answer everyone who demands that you tell them about what you confidently expect  God to do for you. 
\v 16 But answer them humbly and respectfully, and make sure that you do nothing wrong, in order that those who speak evil about you may be ashamed when they see the good way in which you are conducting yourselves because of your relationship with Christ. 
\v 17  It may be that God wants you to suffer. But it is better to do good deeds, even you suffer for doing them, than to do evil deeds and suffer  for doing that. 
\v 18  I say that because Christ died once for the sake of people who have sinned. He was a righteous person who died for unrighteous people. He died in order that he might bring us to, but  God's Spirit caused him to become alive again. 
\v 19 The Spirit also helped him as he went to proclaim  God's victory to the evil spirits whom God had imprisoned  in the heavens . 
\v 20 Long ago, during the time that Noah was building a big boat, those evil spirits disobeyed God when he waited patiently  in that boat. Specifically, God brought only eight persons safely through the waters  of the flood, while all the others drowned in it. 
\v 21 That water, by means of which eight people were saved when God punished the other people , represents  the water in which we are baptized  to show that God has saved us  from God punishing us. The water in which we are baptized does not remove dirt from our bodies. Instead, it shows that we are requesting  God to assure us that he has removed our guilt  for having sinned. And because Jesus Christ became alive again after he died, we know that God accepted his sacrifice for us and because of that was able to remove our guilt. 
\v 22 Christ has gone into heaven and is ruling  to be made subject to him.
