\c 4
\s 1 Peter 4:1-6
\sr Think as Christ did when he suffered, and conduct your lives as God wants you to, not doing the immoral things that you used to do.
\p
\v 1 Therefore, because Christ suffered in his body, you also must think the way that he did  when he was willing to suffer, because those who suffer in their bodies  because of belonging to Jesus have stopped sinning  the way they used to sin. 
\v 2 As a result, during their remaining time here on earth, they do not do the things that sinful people desire to do, but instead they do the things that God wants them to do. 
\v 3  I say that to you because  and carousing, Or: revelry, and you  worshipped idols, which is very displeasing to God. 
\v 4  Because you used to do those things, your friends are surprised that you do not join with them anymore when they participate in that kind of wild behavior  that is rushing to a flood. As a result, they speak evil about you. 
\v 5 But  God is ready to judge the people who are living  now and the people who have died, and he is the one who will decide whether he approves of what they have done. 
\v 6 That is the reason why the message  about Christ was preached  to believers who have now died. That message was preached to them in order that even though  sinful people might judge them  and say that they are guilty, God's Spirit would  enable them to live  eternally.
\s 1 Peter 4:7-11
\sr Keep thinking sensibly. Love each other earnestly. Provide hospitality to others. Use your spiritual gifts well. Do kind deeds with all the energy that you have.
\p
\v 7 It is almost the time when all things on this earth will come to an end. Therefore, keep thinking sensibly, so that you can pray  clearly. 
\v 8 Most important of all, love each other earnestly, we will just ignore many of the sinful things that  they do to us. 
\v 9 Provide food and a place to sleep for those  who come to your community, and do it without complaining. 
\v 10 Believers should all use the spiritual gifts that God has given them to serve others. They should manage well the various gifts that God has kindly given them. 
\v 11 Those who speak  to the congregation should do that as though they are speaking the  very words of God. Those who do kind deeds to others should do it with the strength that God gives them, in order that God may be honored by all this 
\s 1 Peter 4:12-19
\sr Do not be surprised about your sufferings for being Christians, and do not be ashamed when that happens. Instead, commit yourselves to God.
\p
\v 12 You whom I love, do not be surprised about the painful things that you are suffering  because you belong to Christ. Those things are  testing you as metals are tested by people putting them in a fire. Do not think that something strange is happening to you. 
\v 13 Instead, rejoice that you are suffering the same kinds of things that Christ endured. Rejoice whenyou suffer, in order that you may also be very glad  he is. 
\v 14 If you are insulted , God is pleased with you, because it shows that the Spirit of God, the Spirit who  reveals how great  God is, lives within you. 
\v 15 If you suffer, do not let that suffering be the result of your being a murderer or a thief or as a result of doing some other evil deed, or as a result of interfering in someone else's affairs. 
\v 16 But if you suffer because of being a Christian, do not be ashamed about it. Instead, praise God that you are suffering because of belonging to Christ . 
\v 17 I say that, because it is now time for God to begin judging people, and first he will judge those who belong  those who do not obey the good message that comes from him! 
\v 18  That will be as it is written in the Scriptures,
\q  Many righteous people  will have to suffer many  difficult trials before going to heaven. 
\q So ungodly and sinful people will surely have to suffer  much severe punishment from God!
\p
\v 19 Therefore, those who suffer because of its being God's will that they suffer  because of being Christians should commit themselves to God, the one who created them and the one who always does what he promises to do. And they should continue to do what is right.
