\c 2 \s 1 Timothy 2:1-3:16 \sr I instruct you how people should conduct themselves who belong to God's family and who uphold the truth. \p \v 1 The first thing that I urge you to tell your congregation is that Christians should continually ask God for what they need. They should also pray to God for all other people, and they should be thanking God. \v 2 Specifically, they should pray for rulers and for all other people who are in important government positions, in order that God will help them to rule. As God enables the rulers to rule well, we can live very peaceably as we conduct ours lives doing all that God and others consider to be right and proper. \v 3 It is good to pray like that, and it pleases God, who saves us, when we pray like that. \v 4 He desires to save all people. He wants everyone to fully know and accept his true message. \v 5 He is the only one true God! And there is only one person who talks to God on behalf of people. That person is Christ Jesus, who himself is a man! \v 6 He gave his life. \v 7 As for \bd me\bd*, he appointed me to declare this message and to be an apostle. I am telling the truth about God appointing me. I am not lying! He appointed me to teach the non-Jews that they should believe God's true message. \p \v 8 I desire that in every place where believers worship, the men who pray publicly . \v 9 I would like that the clothing that women wear be modest and sensible. I want them to not fix their hair in fancy, Or: elaborate ways, nor wear gold jewelry, nor pearls, nor expensive clothing in order that they may make themselves attractive. \v 10 Instead, they should be doing things that women who claim to worship God should do; that is, they should be doing good deeds. \v 11 Women must learn to listen quietly during the worship services and to fully subject themselves to the leaders of the congregation. \v 12 I do not permit women to teach men spiritual truth publicly, and I do not permit them to have authority over men. Instead, I desire that women listen quietly during the worship services. \v 13 Keep in mind that God made Adam first, and afterwards he made Eve, \v 14 and that it was not Adam whom Satan deceived. As a result of the woman being deceived, she sinned. She did what God had told her not to do. \v 15 But even though she did that, now women will be saved , and if they continue to be modest.
