\c 3
\p
\v 1 Anyone who aspires to be an elder  in the congregation  task. 
\v 2  Since that is a task that others should respect, an overseer must  conduct himself in such a way that  no one can truly say that he has done  anything that is wrong. Specifically, he must be faithful to his wife. He must think clearly  about what he does. He must be able to control his behavior. He must be sensible. He must be dignified, Or: respectable. He must welcome and care for guests. He must be able to teach  God's truth well. 
\v 3 He must not be a drunkard. He must not be ready to fight  those who make him angry. On the contrary, he must be gentle and he must not be quarrelsome. He must not be greedy for much money. 
\v 4 He must lead and care for his own household well. For example, he must be a man whom his children obey and completely respect, 
\v 5 because if anyone does not know how he should lead well and care for well the people who live in his own house, he certainly cannot care for God's congregation! 
\v 6 He must not be one who has just recently  trusted in Jesus, because  if you choose a man like that he might become conceited. 
\v 7 Moreover, an elder must conduct himself in such a way that non-Christians speak well of him, because  if he conducts himself like that, people will not reproach like people capture animals in a trap.
\p
\v 8  Those whom you choose to serve as deacons likewise  must be ones who conduct themselves suitably. 
\v 9 They must sincerely believe the message that  God has now revealed  to us. 
\v 10  Like you do for the elders, you must examine their character before you appoint them to serve. Then if they are without fault, let them serve as deacons. 
\v 11 Their wives . They must not speak evil about people. They must not drink much alcohol. They must be faithful in everything that they do. 
\v 12 Deacons must be faithful to their wives, and they must lead well and care well for their children and  the rest of the people in their houses. 
\v 13 Because if deacons serve well, people will respect them and they will be able  to speak very boldly about what they believe concerning Christ Jesus.
\p
\v 14 Although I hope that I will come to you soon, I am writing these things to you  now 
\v 15 in order that if I am delayed the true  message. 
\v 16 It is certainly true that  the message that God has now revealed is very wonderful! From it, we learn this spiritual truth that we say concerning Jesus Christ that,
\q He is the one who appeared on the earth in a human body. 
\q God's Spirit showed; 
\q Angels saw him; people preached about him in many nations;
\q People in many parts of the world believed the message about him.
\q God took him up into heaven.
