====== Introduction to the book of Genesis ========
“Genesis” means “where things came from.” The book starts before there was anything, and nothing existed but God alone. He brought the universe into existence, and he made it all. The grand themes of creation tell us that God made a place where he would make himself known, and he can show us his nature in this place, and he preserved the account, and Moses, his servant, wrote it down for us to read. The date the writing of Genesis was about 1450 BC, after the Exodus from Egypt. But Genesis uses much older sources from generations before Moses. 
Genesis is about how human beings were made God, the nature of purpose of human life, as their relationship with God (as those who serve and enter into agreements with God) and with nature, as those who care for creation. Human beings are different from all other animals in that we were made by God, and God gave us some of qualities and abilities so we could communicate, love, and take responsibility for our actions.
Genesis also has the tragic account of the beginning of human sin. It tells us where sin came from, and how God punishes it. Genesis is a record of God’s mighty acts, the beginning of human life, and how sin brought death and separation between people and God. Genesis also gives hope and tells us about God’s promise to save (Gen. 3:15ff). 
Moses is the author of the first five books of the bible, called the Pentateuch (from the Greek for “Five-Volume Book”), and his authorship is confirmed by writers of the New Testament and supported by his name mentioned in these books as the writer. Christ quotes from Genesis and uses it as an authority to support his teachings (see for example Matthew 19:4, “male and female …”; Matthew 24:37-38, “as it was in the days of Noah …”; Genesis is quotes about 60 times in the New Testament; John 5:45-46, Jesus refers to Moses as the author of the Pentateuch).
Genesis Chapters 1-11 is an account of times long ago (much before the time of Moses), called the Patriarchal Period, “The time of the Fathers.” From Adam and Eve, to Cain and Abel, to Noah and the Flood, and the Tower of Babel, the history of the first people has promise and blessing, and they also had disappointment and failure. 
In Genesis Chapters 12-50 we focus on one man, Abraham, and his family and his descendants, and about their special relationship to Yahweh, by “Covenant” and “Promise” (and in the rest of the Pentateuch, they also related to Yahweh by his Law). The longest section in Genesis is about Joseph, a son of Jacob, and he is the key figure in Chapters 38-50.  The account is about how Israel came to live in Egypt and how they were made slaves there. The book of Exodus is the account of how they were set free from their masters in Egypt and how they came to the Promised Land. 
God reveals himself in Genesis as “God” (Elohim, the Creator God), and as “Yahweh” (the Covenant or Personal name for God), as “El-Shaddai” (God Almighty), and as “Adonai” (Master or Ruler).
Overview of Genesis: 
1.	Creation to Tower of Babel, see Genesis 1-11
a.	The Cosmos, 1:1-2:4; Humanity, 2:5-5:2;  Noah, Shem, and Terah, 11:10-11:27a
2.	Patriarchal Narratives, Ishmael, Isaac, Esau, Jacob, and Judah see Genesis 11:27b-37:1 and 38, 
a.	The account of Tamar and Judah, in Chapter 38
3.	The Joseph Narrative, see Genesis 37:2b-37:36; and 39:1-50:26.
4.	Look for the phrase, “these are the generations of …” as a key to the purposes and subjects that  Moses selected in his narrative, and as a possible sources for these ancient accounts. The phrase is found in (5:1ff; 10:1ff; 11:10ff; 25:12ff; and 36:1ff, and see also in Numbers 3:1ff).
