\c 2
\p
\v 1 I said in my heart, Come now, I will prove you with mirth; therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also was vanity.
\v 2 I said of laughter, It is mad; and of mirth, What does it?
\v 3 I searched in my heart how to cheer my flesh with wine, my heart yet guiding
me with wisdom, and how to lay hold on folly, till I might see what it was good for the sons of men that they should
do under heaven all the days of their life.
\v 4 I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards;
\v 5 I made me gardens and parks, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruit;
\v 6 I made me pools of water, to water therefrom the forest where trees were reared;
\v 7 I bought male servants and maid-servants, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of herds and
flocks, above all that were before me in Jerusalem;
\v 8 I gothered me also silver and gold, and the treasure of kings and of the provinces; I got me men-singers and
women-singers, and the delights of the sons of men, musical instruments, and that of all sorts.
\v 9 So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.
\v 10 And whatever mine eyes desired I kept not from them; I withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced
because of all my labor; and this was my portion from all my labor.
\v 11 Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do; and, behold, all was
vanity and a striving after wind, and there was no profit under the sun.
\v 12 And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what
can the man do that comes after the king? even
that which has been done long ago.
\v 13 Then I saw that wisdom excels folly, as far as light excels darkness.
\v 14 The wise man’s eyes are in his head, and the fool walks in darkness: and yet I perceived that one event happeneth to
them all.
\v 15 Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so will it happen even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then
said I in my heart, that this also is vanity.
\v 16 For of the wise man, even as of the fool, there is no remembrance for ever; seeing that in the days to come all will have
been long forgotten. And how does the wise man die even as the fool!
\v 17 So I hated life, because the work that is wrought under the sun was grievous to me; for all is vanity and a striving
after wind.
\v 18 And I hated all my labor wherein I labored under the sun, seeing that I must leave it to the man that shall be after
me.
\v 19 And who knows whether he will be a wise man or a fool? yet will he have rule over all my labor wherein I have labored,
and wherein I have showed myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity.
\v 20 Therefore I turned about to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labor wherein I had labored under the sun.
\v 21 For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, and with knowledge, and with skilfulness; yet to a man that has not
labored therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.
\v 22 For what has a man of all his labor, and of the striving of his heart, wherein he laboreth under the sun?
\v 23 For all his days are but sorrows, and his travail is grief; yea, even in the night his heart takes no rest.
This also is vanity.
\v 24 There is nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and make his soul enjoy good in his labor.
This also I saw, that it is from the hand of God.
\v 25 For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment, more than I?
\v 26 For to the man that pleases him God gives wisdom, and knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he gives
travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that pleases God. This also is vanity and a striving after wind.