\c 5
\p
\v 1 Keep your foot when you go to the house of God; for to draw near to hear is better than to give the sacrifice of fools:
for they know not that they do evil.
\v 2 Be not rash with your mouth, and let not your heart be hasty to utter anything before God; for God is in heaven, and you
upon earth: therefore let your words be few.
\v 3 For a dream comes with a multitude of business, and a fool’s voice with a multitude of words.
\v 4 When you vowest a vow to God, defer not to pay it; for he has no pleasure in fools: pay that which you vowest.
\v 5 Better is it that you should not vow, than that you should vow and not pay.
\v 6 Suffer not your mouth to cause your flesh to sin; neither say you before the angel, that is was an error: wherefore should
God be angry at your voice, and destroy the work of your hands?
\v 7 For in the multitude of dreams there are vanities, and in many words: but fear you God.
\v 8 If you see the oppression of the poor, and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in a province, marvel
not at the matter: for one higher than the high regardeth; and there are higher than they.
\v 9 Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself
is served by the field.
\v 10 He that loves silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loves abundance, with increase: this also is
vanity.
\v 11 When goods increase, they are increased that eat them; and what advantage is there to the owner thereof, save the
beholding of them with his eyes?
\v 12 The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much; but the fulness of the rich will not suffer him to
sleep.
\v 13 There is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun, namely, riches kept by the owner thereof to his hurt:
\v 14 and those riches perish by evil adventure; and if he has begotten a son, there is nothing in his hand.
\v 15 As he came forth from his mother’s womb, naked shall he go again as he came, and shall take nothing for his labor, which
he may carry away in his hand.
\v 16 And this also is a grievous evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit has he that he laboreth
for the wind?
\v 17 All his days also he eats in darkness, and he is sore vexed, and has sickness and wrath.
\v 18 Behold, that which I have seen to be good and to be comely is for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy good in all his
labor, wherein he laboreth under the sun, all the days of his life which God has given him: for this is his portion.
\v 19 Every man also to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has given him power to eat thereof, and to take his
portion, and to rejoice in his labor-this is the gift of God.
\v 20 For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth
him in the joy of his heart.