\c 7
\p
\v 1 A good name is better than precious oil; and the day of death, than the day of one’s birth.
\v 2 It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the
living will lay it to his heart.
\v 3 Sorrow is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made glad.
\v 4 The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
\v 5 It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.
\v 6 For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.
\v 7 Surely extortion makes the wise man foolish; and a bribe destroys the understanding.
\v 8 Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof; and
the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
\v 9 Be not hasty in your spirit to be angry; for anger rests in the bosom of fools.
\v 10 Say not you, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for you do not inquire wisely concerning
this.
\v 11 Wisdom is as good as an inheritance; yea, more excellent is it for them that see the sun.
\v 12 For wisdom is a defence, even as money is a defence; but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom preserves the life
of him that has it.
\v 13 Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he has made crooked?
\v 14 In the day of prosperity be joyful, and in the day of adversity consider; yea, God has made the one side by side with
the other, to the end that man should not find out anything that shall
be after him.
\v 15 All this have I seen in my days of vanity: there is a righteous man that perishes in his righteousness, and there is a
wicked man that prolongs his life in his evil-doing.
\v 16 Be not righteous overmuch; neither make yourself overwise: why should you destroy yourself?
\v 17 Be not overmuch wicked, neither be you foolish: why should you die before your time?
\v 18 It is good that you should take hold of this; yea, also from that withdraw not your hand: for he that fears God
shall come forth from them all.
\v 19 Wisdom is a strength to the wise man more than ten rulers that are in a city.
\v 20 Surely there is not a righteous man upon earth, that does good, and sins not.
\v 21 Also take not heed to all words that are spoken, lest you hear your servant curse thee;
\v 22 for oftentimes also your own heart knows that you yourself likewise have cursed others.
\v 23 All this have I proved in wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.
\v 24 That which is, is far off and exceeding deep; who can find it out?
\v 25 I turned about, and my heart was set to know and to search out, and to seek wisdom and the reason
of things, and to know that wickedness is folly, and that foolishness is madness.
\v 26 And I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets,
and whose hands are bands: whoso pleases God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.
\v 27 Behold, this have I found, says the Preacher, laying one thing to another, to find out the account;
\v 28 which my soul still seeketh, but I have not found: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those
have I not found.
\v 29 Behold, this only have I found: that God made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.