\c 9
\p
\v 1 For all this I laid to my heart, even to explore all this: that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the
hand of God; whether it be love or hatred, man knows it not; all is before them.
\v 2 All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean and to
the unclean; to him that sacrifices and to him that sacrifices not; as is the good, so is the sinner;
and he that sweareth, as he that fears an oath.
\v 3 This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes also, the heart of the sons of
men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that
they go to the dead.
\v 4 For to him that is joined with all the living there is hope; for a living dog is better than a dead lion.
\v 5 For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not anything, neither have they any more a reward; for the
memory of them is forgotten.
\v 6 As well their love, as their hatred and their envy, is perished long ago; neither have they any more a portion for ever in
anything that is done under the sun.
\v 7 Go your way, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart; for God has already accepted your works.
\v 8 Let your garments be always white; and let not your head lack oil.
\v 9 Live joyfully with the wife whom you love all the days of your life of vanity, which he has given you under the sun,
all your days of vanity: for that is your portion in life, and in your labor wherein you laborest under the sun.
\v 10 Whatsoever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor
wisdom, in Sheol, whither you goest.
\v 11 I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to
the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all.
\v 12 For man also knows not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the
snare, even so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falls suddenly upon them.
\v 13 I have also seen wisdom under the sun on this wise, and it seemed great to me:
\v 14 There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great
bulwarks against it.
\v 15 Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor
man.
\v 16 Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man’s wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.
\v 17 The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the cry of him that rules among fools.
\v 18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war; but one sinner destroys much good.