\c 1
\p
\v 1 Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of
Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
\v 2 and he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but
Hannah had no children.
\v 3 And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And
the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests to Jehovah, were there.
\v 4 And when the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
portions:
\v 5 but to Hannah he gave a double portion; for he loved Hannah, but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
\v 6 And her rival provoked her sore, to make her fret, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
\v 7 And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she
wept, and did not eat.
\v 8 And Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah, why weep you? and why eatest you not? and why is your heart grieved? am
not I better to you than ten sons?
\p
\v 9 So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest was sitting upon his seat
by the door-post of the temple of Jehovah.
\v 10 And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed to Jehovah, and wept sore.
\v 11 And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your handmaid, and
remember me, and not forget your handmaid, but will give to your handmaid a man-child, then I will give him to Jehovah all
the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
\p
\v 12 And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli marked her mouth.
\v 13 Now Hannah, she spoke in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had been
drunken.
\v 14 And Eli said to her, How long will you be drunken? put away your wine from thee.
\v 15 And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong
drink, but I poured out my soul before Jehovah.
\v 16 Count not your handmaid for a wicked woman; for out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation have I spoken
hitherto.
\v 17 Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of him.
\v 18 And she said, Let your handmaid find favor in your sight. So the woman went her way, and did eat; and her countenance was
no more sad.
\p
\v 19 And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah. And
Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her;
\v 20 and it came to pass, when the time was come about, that Hannah conceived, and bare a son; and she called his name Samuel,
saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
\p
\v 21 And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer to Jehovah the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
\v 22 But Hannah went not up; for she said to her husband, I will not go
up until the child be weaned; and then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
\v 23 And Elkanah her husband said to her, Do what seems you good; wait until you have weaned him; only Jehovah
establish his word. So the woman tarried and gave her son suck, until she weaned him.
\v 24 And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine,
and brought him to the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
\v 25 And they killed the bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
\v 26 And she said, Oh, my lord, as your soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by you here, praying to Jehovah.
\v 27 For this child I prayed; and Jehovah has given me my petition which I asked of him:
\v 28 therefore also I have granted him to Jehovah; as long as he lives he is granted to Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah
there.