\c 3
\p
\v 1 And the child Samuel ministered to Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; there was no
frequent vision.
\v 2 And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to wax dim, so that he could
not see),
\v 3 and the lamp of God was not yet gone out, and Samuel was laid down
to sleep, in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was;
\v 4 that Jehovah called Samuel: and he said, Here am I.
\v 5 And he ran to Eli, and said, Here am I; for you calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and
lay down.
\v 6 And Jehovah called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for you calledst me. And he
answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.
\v 7 Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed to him.
\v 8 And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for you calledst me.
And Eli perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
\v 9 Therefore Eli said to Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that you shall say, Speak, Jehovah; for
your servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
\p
\v 10 And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel said, Speak; for your servant
heareth.
\v 11 And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that hears it
shall tingle.
\v 12 In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even to the end.
\v 13 For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons did bring a
curse upon themselves, and he restrained them not.
\v 14 And therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli’s house shall not be expiated with sacrifice
nor offering for ever.
\p
\v 15 And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision.
\v 16 Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
\v 17 And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah has spoken to thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me: God do so
to thee, and more also, if you hide anything from me of all the things that he spoke to thee.
\v 18 And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what seems him good.
\p
\v 19 And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.
\v 20 And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
\v 21 And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.