\c 8
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.
\v 2 Now the name of his firstborn was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
\v 3 And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted justice.
\p
\v 4 Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah;
\v 5 and they said to him, Behold, you are old, and your sons walk not in your ways: now make us a king to judge us like all
the nations.
\v 6 But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to Jehovah.
\v 7 And Jehovah said to Samuel, Listen to the voice of the people in all that they say to thee; for they have not
rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not be king over them.
\v 8 According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, in
that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also to thee.
\v 9 Now therefore listen to their voice: howbeit you shall protest solemnly to them, and shall show them the manner of
the king that shall reign over them.
\p
\v 10 And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah to the people that asked of him a king.
\v 11 And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them to
him, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots;
\v 12 and he will appoint them to him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and
he will set some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments
of his chariots.
\v 13 And he will take your daughters to be perfumers, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
\v 14 And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his
servants.
\v 15 And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
\v 16 And he will take your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to
his work.
\v 17 He will take the tenth of your flocks: and you shall be his servants.
\v 18 And you shall cry out in that day because of your king whom you shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not answer you in
that day.
\p
\v 19 But the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay: but we will have a king over us,
\v 20 that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
\v 21 And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
\v 22 And Jehovah said to Samuel, Listen to their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go you
every man to his city.