\c 9
\p
\v 1 Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of
Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
\v 2 And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a young man and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier
person than he: from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
\v 3 And the asses of Kish, Saul’s father, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee,
and arise, go seek the asses.
\v 4 And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they found them not: then
they passed through the land of Shaalim, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they
found them not.
\p
\v 5 When they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return, lest my
father leave off caring for the asses, and be anxious for us.
\v 6 And he said to him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man that is held in honor; all that he
says comes surely to pass: now let us go thither; perhaps he can tell us concerning our journey whereon we go.
\v 7 Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels,
and there is not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we?
\v 8 And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will
I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
\v 9 (Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he said, Come, and let us go to the seer; for he that is
now called a Prophet was beforetime called a Seer.)
\v 10 Then said Saul to his servant, Well said; come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was.
\p
\v 11 As they went up the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said to them, Is the seer
here?
\v 12 And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before thee: make haste now, for he is come today into
the city; for the people have a sacrifice today in the high place:
\v 13 as soon as you are come into the city, you shall straightway find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat; for the
people will not eat until he come, because he does bless the sacrifice;
and afterwards they eat that are bidden. Now therefore get you up; for at this time you shall find him.
\v 14 And they went up to the city; and as they came within the city, behold, Samuel came out toward them, to go up
to the high place.
\p
\v 15 Now Jehovah had revealed to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
\v 16 To-morrow about this time I will send you a man out of the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be prince over
my people Israel; and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because
their cry is come to me.
\v 17 And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said to him, Behold, the man of whom I spoke to thee! this same shall have authority
over my people.
\v 18 Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer’s house is.
\v 19 And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, for you shall eat with me to-day:
and in the morning I will let you go, and will tell you all that is in your heart.
\v 20 And as for your asses that were lost three days ago, set not your mind on them; for they are found. And for whom is all
that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for thee, and for all your father’s house?
\v 21 And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all
the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speak you to me after this manner?
\p
\v 22 And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the guest-chamber, and made them sit in the chiefest place
among them that were bidden, who were about thirty persons.
\v 23 And Samuel said to the cook, Bring the portion which I gave thee, of which I said to thee, Set it by thee.
\v 24 And the cook took up the thigh, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And
Samuel said, Behold, that which has been reserved! set it before you and eat; because to the appointed time has
it been kept for thee, for I said, I have invited the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
\p
\v 25 And when they were come down from the high place into the city, he communed with Saul upon the housetop.
\v 26 And they arose early: and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called to Saul on the housetop,
saying, Up, that I may send you away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, abroad.
\v 27 As they were going down at the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Bid the servant pass on before us (and he passed
on), but stand you still first, that I may cause you to hear the word of God.