\c 10
\p
\v 1 Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not that Jehovah has
anointed you to be prince over his inheritance?
\v 2 When you are depareed from me to-day, then you shall find two men by Rachel’s sepulchre, in the border of Benjamin at
Zelzah; and they will say to thee, The asses which you went to seek are found; and, lo, your father has left off caring
for the asses, and is anxious for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
\v 3 Then shall you go on forward from thence, and you shall come to the oak of Tabor; and there shall meet you there three
men going up to God to Beth-el, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a
bottle of wine:
\v 4 and they will salute you, and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall receive of their hand.
\v 5 After that you shall come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when
you are come there to the city, that you shall meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and
a timbrel, and a pipe, and a harp, before them; and they will be prophesying:
\v 6 and the Spirit of Jehovah will come mightily upon thee, and you shall prophesy with them, and shall be turned into
another man.
\v 7 And let it be, when these signs are come to thee, that you do as occasion shall serve thee; for God is with thee.
\v 8 And you shall go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down to thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to
sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shall you tarry, till I come to you, and show you what you shall do.
\p
\v 9 And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came
to pass that day.
\v 10 And when they came there to the hill, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came mightily upon him,
and he prophesied among them.
\v 11 And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people
said one to another, What is this that is come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
\v 12 And one of the same place answered and said, And who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among
the prophets?
\v 13 And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
\p
\v 14 And Saul’s uncle said to him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and when we saw that
they were not found, we came to Samuel.
\v 15 And Saul’s uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said to you.
\v 16 And Saul said to his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But concerning the matter of the kingdom,
whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
\p
\v 17 And Samuel called the people together to Jehovah to Mizpah;
\v 18 and he said to the children of Israel, Thus says Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I
delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you:
\v 19 but you have this day rejected your God, who himself saves you out of all your calamities and your distresses; and you
have said to him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and
by your thousands.
\v 20 So Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
\v 21 And he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by their families; and the family of the Matrites was taken; and Saul the son
of Kish was taken: but when they sought him, he could not be found.
\v 22 Therefore they asked of Jehovah further, Is there yet a man to come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he has hid
himself among the baggage.
\v 23 And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his
shoulders and upward.
\v 24 And Samuel said to all the people, See you him whom Jehovah has chosen, that there is none like him among all the people?
And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
\p
\v 25 Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel
sent all the people away, every man to his house.
\v 26 And Saul also went to his house to Gibeah; and there went with him the host, whose hearts God had touched.
\v 27 But certain worthless fellows said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no present. But he
held his peace.