\c 12
\p
\v 1 And Samuel said to all Israel, Behold, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a
king over you.
\v 2 And now, behold, the king walks before you; and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you: and I have
walked before you from my youth to this day.
\v 3 Here I am: witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken?
or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I taken a ransom to blind mine eyes therewith? and I
will restore it you.
\v 4 And they said, You have not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither have you taken anything of any man’s hand.
\v 5 And he said to them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything
in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
\p
\v 6 And Samuel said to the people, It is Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the
land of Egypt.
\v 7 Now therefore stand still, that I may plead with you before Jehovah concerning all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he
did to you and to your fathers.
\v 8 When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried to Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth
your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
\v 9 But they forgat Jehovah their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the
hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
\v 10 And they cried to Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and
the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
\v 11 And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on
every side; and you lived in safety.
\v 12 And when you saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, you said to me, Nay, but a king shall
reign over us; when Jehovah your God was your king.
\v 13 Now therefore behold the king whom you have chosen, and whom you have asked for: and, behold, Jehovah has set a king over
you.
\v 14 If you will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, and
both you and also the king that reigneth over you be followers of Jehovah your God,
well:
\v 15 but if you will not listen to the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then will the hand of
Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
\v 16 Now therefore stand still and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
\v 17 Is it not wheat harvest to-day? I will call to Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain; and you shall know and see
that your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking you a king.
\v 18 So Samuel called to Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared Jehovah and
Samuel.
\p
\v 19 And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to Jehovah your God, that we die not; for we have added to
all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
\v 20 And Samuel said to the people, Fear not: you have indeed done all this evil; yout turn not aside from following Jehovah,
but serve Jehovah with all your heart:
\v 21 and turn you not aside; for then would you go after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver, for they are
vain.
\v 22 For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name’s sake, because it has pleased Jehovah to make you a people
to himself.
\v 23 Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for you: but I will instruct
you in the good and the right way.
\v 24 Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for consider how great things he has done for you.
\v 25 But if you shall still do wickedly, you shall be consumed, both you and your king.