\c 15
\p
\v 1 And Samuel said to Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint you to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore listen
you to the voice of the words of Jehovah.
\v 2 Thus says Jehovah of hosts, I have marked that which Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way,
when he came up out of Egypt.
\v 3 Now go and strike Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but kill both man and woman, infant
and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
\p
\v 4 And Saul summoned the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
\v 5 And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
\v 6 And Saul said to the Kenites, Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for you
showed kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the
Amalekites.
\v 7 And Saul struck the Amalekites, from Havilah as you go to Shur, that is before Egypt.
\v 8 And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
\v 9 But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and
all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
\p
\v 10 Then came the word of Jehovah to Samuel, saying,
\v 11 It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned back from following me, and has not performed my
commandments. And Samuel was wroth; and he cried to Jehovah all night.
\v 12 And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning; and it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he
set him up a monument, and turned, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
\v 13 And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said to him, Blessed be you of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
\v 14 And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?
\v 15 And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen,
to sacrifice to Jehovah your God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
\v 16 Then Samuel said to Saul, Stay, and I will tell you what Jehovah has said to me this night. And he said to him, Say
on.
\p
\v 17 And Samuel said, Though you was little in your own sight, was you not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And
Jehovah anointed you king over Israel;
\v 18 and Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go, and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them
until they be consumed.
\v 19 Wherefore then did you not obey the voice of Jehovah, but did fly upon the spoil, and did that which was evil in
the sight of Jehovah?
\v 20 And Saul said to Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have
brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.
\v 21 But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice to Jehovah your God in
Gilgal.
\v 22 And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of Jehovah?
Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams.
\v 23 For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as idolatry and teraphim. Because you have rejected the
word of Jehovah, he has also rejected you from being king.
\p
\v 24 And Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and your words, because I
feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
\v 25 Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
\v 26 And Samuel said to Saul, I will not return with thee; for you have rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah has
rejected you from being king over Israel.
\v 27 And as Samuel turned about to go away, Saul laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
\v 28 And Samuel said to him, Jehovah has tore the kingdom of Israel from you this day, and has given it to a neighbor of
thine, that is better than thou.
\v 29 And also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
\v 30 Then he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn
again with me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
\v 31 So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
\p
\v 32 Then said Samuel, Bring you hither to me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came to him cheerfully. And Agag
said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
\v 33 And Samuel said, As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed
Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
\p
\v 34 Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
\v 35 And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul: and Jehovah repented that he
had made Saul king over Israel.