\c 16
\p
\v 1 And Jehovah said to Samuel, How long will you mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from being king over Israel?
fill your horn with oil, and go: I will send you to Jesse the Beth-lehemite; for I have provided me a king among his sons.
\v 2 And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am
come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
\v 3 And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do: and you shall anoint to me him whom I name
to thee.
\v 4 And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came to meet him trembling,
and said, Comest you peaceably?
\v 5 And he said, Peaceably; I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And
he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
\p
\v 6 And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah’s anointed is before him.
\v 7 But Jehovah said to Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him:
for Jehovah sees not as man sees; for man looks on the outward appearance, but Jehovah looks on the heart.
\v 8 Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither has Jehovah chosen this.
\v 9 Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither has Jehovah chosen this.
\v 10 And Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah has not chosen these.
\v 11 And Samuel said to Jesse, Are here all your children? And he said, There remains yet the youngest, and, behold, he is
keeping the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
\v 12 And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look upon. And
Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
\v 13 Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily
upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
\p
\v 14 Now the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
\v 15 And Saul’s servants said to him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
\v 16 Let our lord now command your servants, that are before thee, to seek out a man who is a skillful player on the harp: and
it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and you shall be well.
\v 17 And Saul said to his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
\v 18 Then answered one of the young men, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite, that is skillful in
playing, and a mighty man of valor, and a man of war, and prudent in speech, and a comely person; and Jehovah is with him.
\v 19 Wherefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me David your son, who is with the sheep.
\v 20 And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son to
Saul.
\v 21 And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
\v 22 And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he has found favor in my sight.
\v 23 And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his
hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.