\c 18
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of
David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
\v 2 And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father’s house.
\v 3 Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
\v 4 And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his apparel, even to his sword, and
to his bow, and to his girdle.
\v 5 And David went out wherever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of
war, and it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul’s servants.
\p
\v 6 And it came to pass as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all
the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with instruments of music.
\v 7 And the women sang one to another as they played, and said,
\q Saul has slain his thousands,
\q And David his ten thousands.
\p
\v 8 And Saul was very wroth, and this saying displeased him; and he said, They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to
me they have ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?
\v 9 And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
\p
\v 10 And it came to pass on the morrow, that an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst
of the house: and David played with his hand, as he did day by day. And Saul had his spear in his hand;
\v 11 and Saul cast the spear; for he said, I will strike David even to the wall. And David avoided out of his presence twice.
\v 12 And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from Saul.
\v 13 Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the
people.
\v 14 And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
\v 15 And when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he stood in awe of him.
\v 16 But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.
\p
\v 17 And Saul said to David, Behold, my elder daughter Merab, her will I give you to wife: only be you valiant for me, and
fight Jehovah’s battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
\v 18 And David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my life, or
my father’s family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
\v 19 But it came to pass at the time when Merab, Saul’s daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given to
Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
\v 20 And Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
\v 21 And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against
him. Wherefore Saul said to David, You shall this day be my son-in-law a second time.
\p
\v 22 And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king has delight in
thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king’s son-in-law.
\v 23 And Saul’s servants spoke those words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be the
king’s son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
\v 24 And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spoke David.
\v 25 And Saul said, Thus shall you say to David, The king desires not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines,
to be avenged of the king’s enemies. Now Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
\v 26 And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king’s son-in-law. And the days were not
expired;
\v 27 and David arose and went, he and his men, and killed of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins,
and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king’s son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to
wife.
\v 28 And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved him.
\v 29 And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David’s enemy continually.
\p
\v 30 Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to pass, as often as they went forth, that David behaved
himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.