\c 19
\p
\v 1 And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul’s son,
delighted much in David.
\v 2 And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeks to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to yourself in
the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself:
\v 3 and I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you art, and I will commune with my father of thee; and
if I see aught, I will tell thee.
\v 4 And Jonathan spoke good of David to Saul his father, and said to him, Let not the king sin against his servant,
against David; because he has not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee-ward very good:
\v 5 for he put his life in his hand, and struck the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great victory for all Israel: you saw
it, and did rejoice; wherefore then will you sin against innocent blood, to kill David wiyout a cause?
\v 6 And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
\v 7 And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all those things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his
presence, as beforetime.
\p
\v 8 And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and killed them with a great slaughter; and
they fled before him.
\v 9 And an evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing
with his hand.
\v 10 And Saul sought to strike David even to the wall with the spear; but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence, and he struck
the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
\v 11 And Saul sent messengers to David’s house, to watch him, and to kill him in the morning: and Michal, David’s wife, told
him, saying, If you save not your life to-night, to-morrow you will be slain.
\v 12 So Michal let David down through the window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
\v 13 And Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats’
hair at the head thereof, and covered it with the clothes.
\v 14 And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
\v 15 And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.
\v 16 And when the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, with the pillow of goats’
hair at the head thereof.
\v 17 And Saul said to Michal, Why have you deceived me thus, and let mine enemy go, so that he is escaped? And Michal
answered Saul, He said to me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
\p
\v 18 Now David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel
went and lived in Naioth.
\v 19 And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.
\v 20 And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as
head over them, the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
\v 21 And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third
time, and they also prophesied.
\v 22 Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Secu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and
David? And one said, Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah.
\v 23 And he went there to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until
he came to Naioth in Ramah.
\v 24 And he also stripped off his clothes, and he also prophesied before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that
night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?