\c 20
\p
\v 1 And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what
is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?
\v 2 And he said to him, Far from it; you shall not die: behold, my father does nothing either great or small, but that he
discloseth it to me; and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
\v 3 And David sware moreover, and said, Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes; and he saith, Let not
Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as your soul liveth, there is but a step between me and
death.
\v 4 Then said Jonathan to David, Whatsoever your soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.
\v 5 And David said to Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat: but
let me go, that I may hide myself in the field to the third day at even.
\v 6 If your father miss me at all, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city; for it
is the yearly sacrifice there for all the family.
\v 7 If he say thus, It is well; your servant shall have peace: but if he be wroth, then know that evil is determined by him.
\v 8 Therefore deal kindly with your servant; for you have brought your servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: but if
there be in me iniquity, kill me yourself; for why should you bring me to your father?
\v 9 And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for if I should at all know that evil were determined by my father to come upon
thee, then would not I tell it thee?
\v 10 Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me if perchance your father answer you roughly?
\v 11 And Jonathan said to David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
\p
\v 12 And Jonathan said to David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, be
witness: when I have sounded my father about this time to-morrow,
or the third day, behold, if there be good toward David, shall I not then send to thee, and disclose it to thee?
\v 13 Jehovah do so to Jonathan, and more also, should it please my father to do you evil, if I disclose it not to you, and
send you away, that you may go in peace: and Jehovah be with you, as he has been with my father.
\v 14 And you shall not only while yet I live show me the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I die not;
\v 15 but also you shall not cut off your kindness from my house for ever; no, not when Jehovah has cut off the enemies of
David every one from the face of the earth.
\v 16 So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, And Jehovah will require it at the hand of David’s
enemies.
\p
\v 17 And Jonathan caused David to swear again, for the love that he had to him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
\v 18 Then Jonathan said to him, To-morrow is the new moon: and you will be missed, because your seat will be empty.
\v 19 And when you have stayed three days, you shall go down quickly, and come to the place where you did hide yourself
when the business was in hand, and shall remain by the stone Ezel.
\v 20 And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.
\v 21 And, behold, I will send the lad, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are on
this side of you; take them, and come; for there is peace to you and no hurt, as Jehovah liveth.
\v 22 But if I say thus to the boy, Behold, the arrows are beyond you; go your way; for Jehovah has sent you away.
\v 23 And as touching the matter which you and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
\p
\v 24 So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat food.
\v 25 And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon the seat by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat
by Saul’s side: but David’s place was empty.
\v 26 Nevertheless Saul spoke not anything that day: for he thought, Something has befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is
not clean.
\v 27 And it came to pass on the morrow after the new moon, which was
the second day, that David’s place was empty: and Saul said to Jonathan his son, Wherefore comes not the son
of Jesse to meat, neither yesterday, nor to-day?
\v 28 And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Beth-lehem:
\v 29 and he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our family has a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he has commanded me
to be there: and now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my brethren.
Therefore he is not come to the king’s table.
\p
\v 30 Then Saul’s anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, You son of a perverse rebellious woman, do not I
know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother’s nakedness?
\v 31 For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon the ground, you shall not be established, nor your kingdom. Wherefore now
send and fetch him to me, for he shall surely die.
\v 32 And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said to him, Wherefore should he be put to death? what has he done?
\v 33 And Saul cast his spear at him to strike him; whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to put David to
death.
\v 34 So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no food the second day of the month; for he was grieved for
David, because his father had done him shame.
\p
\v 35 And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little
lad with him.
\v 36 And he said to his lad, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
\v 37 And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is
not the arrow beyond thee?
\v 38 And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not. And Jonathan’s lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his
master.
\v 39 But the lad knew not anything: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
\v 40 And Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad, and said to him, Go, carry them to the city.
\v 41 And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place
toward the South, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and
wept one with another, until David exceeded.
\v 42 And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah
shall be between me and thee, and between my seed and your seed, for ever. And he arose and departed: and Jonathan went into the
city.