\c 22
\p
\v 1 David therefore departed thence, and escaped to the cave of Adullam: and when his brethren and all his father’s house
heard it, they went down there to him.
\v 2 And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered
themselves to him; and he became captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
\p
\v 3 And David went thence to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come
forth, and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.
\v 4 And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they lived with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
\v 5 And the prophet Gad said to David, Abide not in the stronghold; depart, and get you into the land of Judah. Then David
departed, and came into the forest of Hereth.
\p
\v 6 And Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were with him: now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the
tamarisk-tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him.
\v 7 And Saul said to his servants that stood about him, Hear now, you Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give every one of you
fields and vineyards, will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
\v 8 that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that discloseth to me when my son makes a league with the
son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or discloseth to me that my son has stirred up my servant
against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
\v 9 Then answered Doeg the Edomite, who stood by the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to
Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
\v 10 And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
\p
\v 11 Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father’s house, the priests that were in
Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
\v 12 And Saul said, Hear now, you son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.
\v 13 And Saul said to him, Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, in that you have given him bread,
and a sword, and have inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
\v 14 Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who among all your servants is so faithful as David, who is the king’s
son-in-law, and is taken into your council, and is honorable in your house?
\v 15 Have I today begun to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute anything to his servant, nor
to all the house of my father; for your servant knows nothing of all this, less or more.
\v 16 And the king said, You shall surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all your father’s house.
\v 17 And the king said to the guard that stood about him, Turn, and kill the priests of Jehovah; because their hand also is
with David, and because they knew that he fled, and did not disclose it to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth
their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
\v 18 And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the
priests, and he killed on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.
\v 19 And Nob, the city of the priests, struck he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and sucklings, and
oxen and asses and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
\p
\v 20 And one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
\v 21 And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain Jehovah’s priests.
\v 22 And David said to Abiathar, I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have
occasioned the death of all the persons of your father’s house.
\v 23 Abide you with me, fear not; for he that seeks my life seeks your life: for with me you shall be in safeguard.