\c 24
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is
in the wilderness of En-gedi.
\v 2 Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild
goats.
\v 3 And he came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet. Now David and his men were
living in the innermost parts of the cave.
\v 4 And the men of David said to him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said to thee, Behold, I will deliver your enemy
into your hand, and you shall do to him as it shall seem good to thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul’s robe
privily.
\v 5 And it came to pass afterward, that David’s heart struck him, because he had cut off Saul’s skirt.
\v 6 And he said to his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing to my lord, Jehovah’s anointed, to put forth my
hand against him, seeing he is Jehovah’s anointed.
\v 7 So David checked his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave,
and went on his way.
\p
\v 8 David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked
behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
\v 9 And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearkenest you to men’s words, saying, Behold, David seeks your hurt?
\v 10 Behold, this day your eyes have seen how that Jehovah had delivered you today into my hand in the cave: and some bade
me kill thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is Jehovah’s
anointed.
\v 11 Moreover, my father, see, yea, see the skirt of your robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of your robe, and
killed you not, know you and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against you,
yough you huntest after my life to take it.
\v 12 Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
\v 13 As says the proverb of the ancients, Out of the wicked comes forth wickedness; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
\v 14 After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom do you pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.
\v 15 Jehovah therefore be judge, and give sentence between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of your
hand.
\p
\v 16 And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words to Saul, that Saul said, Is this your voice, my
son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
\v 17 And he said to David, You are more righteous than I; for you have rendered to me good, whereas I have rendered to
you evil.
\v 18 And you have declared this day how that you have dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into
your hand, you killedst me not.
\v 19 For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward you good for that which you have
done to me this day.
\v 20 And now, behold, I know that you shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand.
\v 21 Swear now therefore to me by Jehovah, that you will not cut off my seed after me, and that you will not destroy my
name out of my father’s house.
\v 22 And David sware to Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men got them up to the stronghold.