\c 25
\p
\v 1 And Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And
David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
\p
\v 2 And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand
sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
\v 3 Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a
beautiful countenance: but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
\v 4 And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
\v 5 And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in
my name:
\v 6 and thus shall you say to him that lives in prosperity, Peace be to thee, and peace be to your house, and peace
be to all that you hast.
\v 7 And now I have heard that you have shearers: your shepherds have now been with us, and we did them no hurt, neither was
there anything missing to them, all the while they were in Carmel.
\v 8 Ask your young men, and they will tell thee: wherefore let the young men find favor in your eyes; for we come in a good
day: give, I pray thee, whatever comes to your hand, to your servants, and to your son David.
\p
\v 9 And when David’s young men came, they spoke to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased.
\v 10 And Nabal answered David’s servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants
now-a-days that break away every man from his master.
\v 11 Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it to men of whom I
know not whence they are?
\v 12 So David’s young men turned on their way, and went back, and came and told him according to all these words.
\v 13 And David said to his men, Gird you on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also
girded on his sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the baggage.
\p
\v 14 But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal’s wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to
salute our master; and he railed at them.
\v 15 But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we anything, as long as we went with them, when
we were in the fields:
\v 16 they were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
\v 17 Now therefore know and consider what you will do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his house:
for he is such a worthless fellow, that one cannot speak to him.
\p
\v 18 Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five
measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
\v 19 And she said to her young men, Go on before me; behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal.
\v 20 And it was so, as she rode on her ass, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that, behold, David and his men came
down toward her; and she met them.
\v 21 Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of
all that pertained to him: and he has returned me evil for good.
\v 22 God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light so much as
one man-child.
\p
\v 23 And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and alighted from her ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself
to the ground.
\v 24 And she fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me be the iniquity; and let your handmaid, I pray thee, speak
in your ears, and hear you the words of your handmaid.
\v 25 Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this worthless fellow, even Nabal; for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name,
and folly is with him: but I your handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom you did send.
\v 26 Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as your soul liveth, seeing Jehovah has withholden you from
bloodguiltiness, and from avenging yourself with your own hand, now therefore let your enemies, and them that seek evil to my
lord, be as Nabal.
\v 27 And now this present which your servant has brought to my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
\v 28 Forgive, I pray thee, the trespass of your handmaid: for Jehovah will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord
fights the battles of Jehovah; and evil shall not be found in you all your days.
\v 29 And though men be risen up to pursue thee, and to seek your soul, yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of
life with Jehovah your God; and the souls of your enemies, them shall he sling out, as from the hollow of a sling.
\v 30 And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done to my lord according to all the good that he has spoken
concerning you, and shall have appointed you prince over Israel,
\v 31 that this shall be no grief to thee, nor offense of heart to my lord, either that you have shed blood wiyout cause,
or that my lord has avenged himself. And when Jehovah shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember your handmaid.
\p
\v 32 And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me:
\v 33 and blessed be your discretion, and blessed be thou, that have kept me this day from bloodguiltiness, and from avenging
myself with mine own hand.
\v 34 For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who has withholden me from hurting thee, except you had
hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light so much as one man-child.
\v 35 So David received of her hand that which she had brought him: and he said to her, Go up in peace to your house; see, I
have listened to your voice, and have accepted your person.
\p
\v 36 And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal’s heart was
merry within him, for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
\v 37 And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things, and his
heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
\v 38 And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah struck Nabal, so that he died.
\p
\v 39 And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that has pleaded the cause of my reproach from
the hand of Nabal, and has kept back his servant from evil: and the evil-doing of Nabal has Jehovah returned upon his own
head. And David sent and spoke concerning Abigail, to take her to him to wife.
\v 40 And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spoke to her, saying, David has sent us to thee,
to take you to him to wife.
\v 41 And she arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, your handmaid is a servant to wash the feet
of the servants of my lord.
\v 42 And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers that followed her; and she went after the
messengers of David, and became his wife.
\p
\v 43 David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became both of them his wives.
\v 44 Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David’s wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.