\c 28
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their hosts together for warfare, to fight with Israel.
And Achish said to David, Know you assuredly, that you shall go out with me in the host, you and your men.
\v 2 And David said to Achish, Therefore you shall know what your servant will do. And Achish said to David, Therefore will I
make you keeper of my head for ever.
\p
\v 3 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away
those that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
\v 4 And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together,
and they encamped in Gilboa.
\v 5 And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
\v 6 And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, Jehovah answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
\v 7 Then said Saul to his servants, Seek me a woman that has a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her.
And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that has a familiar spirit at En-dor.
\p
\v 8 And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by
night: and he said, Divine to me, I pray thee, by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whoever I shall name to thee.
\v 9 And the woman said to him, Behold, you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those that have familiar
spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then lay you a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
\v 10 And Saul sware to her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment happen to you for this thing.
\v 11 Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
\v 12 And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why have you deceived
me? for you are Saul.
\v 13 And the king said to her, Be not afraid: for what see thou? And the woman said to Saul, I see a god coming up out
of the earth.
\v 14 And he said to her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man comes up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul
perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground, and did obeisance.
\p
\v 15 And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the
Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams:
therefore I have called thee, that you may make known to me what I shall do.
\v 16 And Samuel said, Wherefore then do you ask of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become your adversary?
\v 17 And Jehovah has done to thee, as he spoke by me: and Jehovah has tore the kingdom out of your hand, and given it to
your neighbor, even to David.
\v 18 Because you obeyedst not the voice of Jehovah, and did not execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore has
Jehovah done this thing to you this day.
\v 19 Moreover Jehovah will deliver Israel also with you into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shall you and your
sons be with me: Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines.
\p
\v 20 Then Saul fell straightway his full length upon the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there
was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
\v 21 And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said to him, Behold, your handmaid has listened
to your voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have listened to your words which you spoke to me.
\v 22 Now therefore, I pray thee, listen you also to the voice of your handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before
thee; and eat, that you may have strength, when you go on your way.
\v 23 But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him; and he listened
to their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
\v 24 And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted, and killed it; and she took flour, and kneaded it, and did
bake unleavened bread thereof:
\v 25 and she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that night.