\c 29
\p
\v 1 Now the Philistines gathered together all their hosts to Aphek: and the Israelites encamped by the fountain which is in
Jezreel.
\v 2 And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands; and David and his men passed on in the rearward
with Achish.
\v 3 Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews
here? And Achish said to the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel,
who has been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away
to me to this day?
\v 4 But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him; and the princes of the Philistines said to him, Make the man
return, that he may go back to his place where you have appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the
battle he become an adversary to us: for wherewith should this fellow reconcile himself to his lord? should it not
be with the heads of these men?
\v 5 Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying,
\q Saul has slain his thousands,
\q And David his ten thousands?
\p
\v 6 Then Achish called David, and said to him, As Jehovah liveth, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming
in with me in the host is good in my sight; for I have not found evil in you since the day of your coming to me to this
day: nevertheless the lords favor you not.
\v 7 Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that you displease not the lords of the Philistines.
\v 8 And David said to Achish, But what have I done? and what have you found in your servant so long as I have been before
you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
\v 9 And Achish answered and said to David, I know that you are good in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the
princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
\v 10 Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with the servants of your lord that are come with thee; and as soon as you are
up early in the morning, and have light, depart.
\v 11 So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the
Philistines went up to Jezreel.