\c 30
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid upon
the South, and upon Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag, and burned it with fire,
\v 2 and had taken captive the women and all that were therein, both small and great: they killed not any, but carried
them off, and went their way.
\v 3 And when David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their
daughters, were taken captive.
\v 4 Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
\v 5 And David’s two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
\v 6 And David was greatly distressed; for the people spoke of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved,
every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
\p
\v 7 And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought
there the ephod to David.
\v 8 And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, If I pursue after this troop, shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue;
for you shall surely overtake them, and shall wiyout fail recover
all.
\v 9 So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those that were left
behind stayed.
\v 10 But David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred stayed behind, who were so faint that they could not go over
the brook Besor.
\p
\v 11 And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they gave him
water to drink;
\v 12 and they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again to
him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
\v 13 And David said to him, To whom belongest thou? and whence are thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to
an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days ago I fell sick.
\v 14 We made a raid upon the South of the Cherethites, and upon that which belongs to Judah, and upon the South of Caleb;
and we burned Ziklag with fire.
\v 15 And David said to him, Wilt you bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear to me by God, that you will neither
kill me, nor deliver me up into the hands of my master, and I will bring you down to this troop.
\p
\v 16 And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad over all the ground, eating and drinking, and dancing,
because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
\v 17 And David struck them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day: and there escaped not a man of them, save
four hundred young men, who rode upon camels and fled.
\v 18 And David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken; and David rescued his two wives.
\v 19 And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything
that they had taken to them: David brought back all.
\v 20 And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before those
other cattle, and said, This is David’s spoil.
\p
\v 21 And David came to the two hundred men, who were so faint that they could not follow David, whom also they had made to
abide at the brook Besor; and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came
near to the people, he saluted them.
\v 22 Then answered all the wicked men and base fellows, of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with
us, we will not give them anything of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that he may
lead them away, and depart.
\v 23 Then said David, You shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah has given to us, who has preserved us, and
delivered the troop that came against us into our hand.
\v 24 And who will listen to you in this matter? for as his share is that goes down to the battle, so shall his share be
that waits by the baggage: they shall share alike.
\v 25 And it was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day.
\p
\v 26 And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil to the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a
present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
\v 27 To them that were in Beth-el, and to them that were in Ramoth of the South, and to them that were in Jattir,
\v 28 and to them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Siphmoth, and to them that were in Eshtemoa,
\v 29 and to them that were in Racal, and to them that were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them that were in the
cities of the Kenites,
\v 30 and to them that were in Hormah, and to them that were in Bor-ashan, and to them that were in Athach,
\v 31 and to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were wont to haunt.