\c 5
\s Hebrews 5:1-10
\sr As Christ suffered, he learned to be a compassionate high priest by obeying God.
\p
\v 1 Every Jewish high priest was chosen by God  in order that they would come before him on behalf of the people. Specifically, God appointed them in order that they would bring gifts to him on behalf of the people, and in order to sacrifice animals to him for people who sinned.
\v 2 The high priests could deal gently with those who ignorantly sinned, since they themselves tended to sin easily.
\v 3 As a result, they had to offer something to God for themselves for their own sins, just like they had to offer something to God for God's people who sinned.
\v 4 Furthermore, no one honors himself by appointing himself to become a high priest. Instead, God chose each man to become a high priest, as he chose Aaron to be the first high priest.
\v 5 Similarly, Christ also did not honor himself by appointing himself to become a high priest. Instead, God appointed him by saying to him what he never said to any other priest, what the Psalmist wrote in the Scriptures,
\q You are my Son! Today I have declared that I am your Father!
\p
\v 6 And he also said to Christ what the Psalmist wrote in another Scripture passage,
\q You are a priest eternally just like Melchizedek was a priest.
\p
\v 7 When Christ lived on the earth  to God and tearfully cried out loudly to him. Specifically, he asked God, who was able to help him, that he would not fear the sufferings just before he died. As a result, God listened to him, because Christ reverently submitted to what God wanted him to do.
\v 8 Although Christ is God's own Son, he learned to obey God by suffering before he died.
\v 9 By becoming all that God intended him to be, he has now become fully qualified to be our high priest. As a result, he is the one who saves eternally all who obey him.
\v 10 Furthermore, God has designated him to be our high priest in the way that Melchizedek was a high priest.
\s Hebrews 5:11-14
\sr You are not ready for more advanced spiritual truth.
\p
\v 11 Although there is much to say to you about how Christ resembles Melchizedek, this is hard for me to explain to you because you now understand things so slowly.
\v 12 You became Christians long ago. So by now you should be teaching spiritual truths to others. But you still need someone to teach you again the truths that God has revealed. I am talking about the truths that we teach people when they first believe in Christ. You need those elementary truths like babies need milk .
\v 13 Remember that those who are still learning these elementary truths  babies who need milk!
\v 14 But the more advanced spiritual truth is for people who are spiritually mature, just like  solid food is for people who are physically mature. They can tell the difference between what is good and what is evil, because they have trained themselves to keep doing that.
