\c 6
\s Hebrews 6:1-8
\sr If you believers later reject the message about Christ, God will reject you.
\p
\v 1 So, we dead do, must turn away from their sinful behavior. I am referring to the teaching that people must believe in God.
\v 2 I am referring to the teaching about what various Jewish and Christian rituals for purifying people signify. I am referring to the teaching about how elders enable people to receive spiritual gifts by laying hands on them . And I am referring to the teaching that God will judge some people and punish them eternally.
\v 3 Instead of continuing to discuss these elementary truths, we will go on to give people mature teaching, if God allows it.
\v 4 I will explain why it is important to do that. Some people have at one time fully understood the message about Christ ] gave to them. They have received the Holy Spirit the same as others have.
\v 5 They have experienced that God's message is good. And by what they have experienced now, they know how God will work powerfully in the future. If those people reject the message about Christ, it will not be possible for anyone to persuade them to turn away from their sinful behavior again!
\v 6 What those believers who later renounce the message about Christ do is as though  they themselves are nailing the Son of God to a cross again! They are causing others to publicly despise Christ.
\v 7 Think about this: It is land on which rain has frequently fallen .
\v 8 But what will happen to believers who do deeds.
\s Hebrews 6:9-12
\sr But God will not overlook all you have done for him.
\p
\v 9 Although I am writing to you like this as a warning, I am certain concerning you whom I love that you are doing better than that. Specifically, I am certain that you are doing the things that are appropriate for those whom God has saved.
\v 10 Since God always acts justly  your showing that you love him by the way you helped your fellow believers and by the way you still help them. Instead, God will reward you for doing good deeds.
\v 11 I strongly want each of you to diligently continue to fully expect to receive what God has provided for you, until you finally receive all that you have confidently expected to receive.
\v 12 I do not want you to be lazy. Instead, I want you to imitate those who by their patience and continuing to trust in God are receiving what he promised them.
\s Hebrews 6:13-20
\sr Our confidence is in God because he promised to bless us, and he made an oath to confirm that he would do that.
\p
\v 13 When God promised to do things for Abraham, he said that he would punish himself if he did not do that, because there was no one of greater importance to ask to punish him if he did not do it.
\v 14 He said to Abraham, "I will certainly bless you."
\v 15 As a result, after Abraham patiently waited for God to do what he promised, he obtained what God promised him.
\v 16 Keep in mind that when people promise something, they ask a more important person to punish them if they do not do what they promise. Furthermore, when people ask God to punish them if they do not tell the truth, that causes the people who are disputing to stop disputing.
\v 17 So, when God wanted to demonstrate very clearly to us who would receive what he had promised that he would not change what he had purposed to do, he solemnly guaranteed that he would declare himself guilty if he did not do what he promised.
\v 18 He did that to strongly encourage us as a result of our knowing that God has done two things that cannot change. Namely, he promised to bless us, and he solemnly declared that he would declare himself guilty if he did not bless us. We know that God, who did those things, cannot lie. We have fled to him in order that we might continue confidently to expect to receive what he promised us.
\v 19 Our confidently expecting .
\v 20 Jesus went into God's presence ahead of us to help us when he became a high priest eternally in the way that Melchizedek was a high priest.
