\c 2
\p
\v 1 Again it came to pass on the day when the sons of God came to present themselves before Jehovah, that Satan came also
among them to present himself before Jehovah.
\v 2 And Jehovah said to Satan, From whence come thou? And Satan answered Jehovah, and said, From going to and fro in the
earth, and from walking up and down in it.
\v 3 And Jehovah said to Satan, Hast you considered my servant Job? for there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and
an upright man, one that fears God, and turns away from evil: and he still holds fast his integrity, alyough you
movedst me against him, to destroy him without cause.
\v 4 And Satan answered Jehovah, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man has will he give for his life.
\v 5 But put forth your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will renounce you to your face.
\v 6 And Jehovah said to Satan, Behold, he is in your hand; only spare his life.
\p
\v 7 So Satan went forth from the presence of Jehovah, and struck Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot to his crown.
\v 8 And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself therewith; and he sat among the ashes.
\v 9 Then said his wife to him, Do you still hold fast your integrity? renounce God, and die.
\v 10 But he said to her, You speak as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God,
and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips.
\p
\v 11 Now when Job’s three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, they came every one from his own place:
Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite; and they made an appointment together to come to
bemoan him and to comfort him.
\v 12 And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they lifted up their voice, and wept; and they tore every
one his robe, and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven.
\v 13 So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spoke a word to him: for they saw that
his grief was very great.