\c 2
\p
\v 1 Wherefore you are wiyout excuse, O man, whoever you are that judge: for wherein you judge another, you
condemnest thyself; for you that judge do practise the same things.
\v 2 And we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against them that practise such things.
\v 3 And reckonest you this, O man, who judge them that practise such things, and do the same, that you shall escape the
judgment of God?
\v 4 Or despisest you the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God
leads you to repentance?
\v 5 but after your hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the
righteous judgment of God;
\v 6 who will render to every man according to his works:
\v 7 to them that by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and incorruption, eternal life:
\v 8 but to them that are factious, and obey not the truth, but obey unrighteousness,
shall be wrath and indignation,
\v 9 tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that works evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek;
\v 10 but glory and honor and peace to every man that works good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek:
\v 11 for there is no respect of persons with God.
\v 12 For as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law: and as many as have sinned under the law
shall be judged by the law;
\v 13 for not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified;
\v 14 (for when Gentiles that have not the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are the law to
themselves;
\v 15 in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness therewith, and their
thoughts one with another accusing or else excusing them);
\v 16 in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my gospel, by Jesus Christ.
\p
\v 17 But if you bear the name of a Jew, and rest upon the law, and gloriest in God,
\v 18 and know his will, and approvest the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law,
\v 19 and are confident that you yourself are a guide of the blind, a light of them that are in darkness,
\v 20 a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth;
\v 21 you therefore that teachest another, teachest you not thyself? you that preachest a man should not steal, do you
steal?
\v 22 you that say a man should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? you that abhor idols, do you rob
temples?
\v 23 you who gloriest in the law, through your transgression of the law dishonorest you God?
\v 24 For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, even as it is written.
\v 25 For circumcision indeed profiteth, if you be a doer of the law: but if you be a transgressor of the law, your
circumcision is become uncircumcision.
\v 26 If therefore the uncircumcision keep the ordinances of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be reckoned for
circumcision?
\v 27 and shall not the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who with the letter and
circumcision are a transgressor of the law?
\v 28 For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh:
\v 29 but he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise
is not of men, but of God.