\c 13
\p
\v 1 Let every soul be in subjection to the higher powers: for there is no power but of God; and the
powers that be are ordained of God.
\v 2 Therefore he that resists the power, withstandeth the ordinance of God: and they that withstand shall receive to
themselves judgment.
\v 3 For rulers are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. And would you have no fear of the power? do that which
is good, and you shall have praise from the same:
\v 4 for he is a minister of God to you for good. But if you do that which is evil, be afraid; for he bears not the sword
in vain: for he is a minister of God, an avenger for wrath to him that does evil.
\v 5 Wherefore you must needs be in subjection, not only because of the wrath, but also for conscience’ sake.
\v 6 For for this cause you pay tribute also; for they are ministers of God’s service, attending continually upon this very
thing.
\v 7 Render to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honor to
whom honor.
\p
\v 8 Owe no man anything, save to love one another: for he that loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.
\v 9 For this, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not kill, You shall not steal, You shall not covet, and if there be
any other commandment, it is summed up in this word, namely, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
\v 10 Love works no ill to his neighbor: love therefore is the fulfilment of the law.
\p
\v 11 And this, knowing the season, that already it is time for you to awake out of sleep: for now is salvation nearer to us
than when we first believed.
\v 12 The night is far spent, and the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the
armor of light.
\v 13 Let us walk becomingly, as in the day; not in revelling and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife
and jealousy.
\v 14 But put you on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh, to
fulfil the lusts thereof.