\c 1
\p
\v 1 The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by Malachi.
\p
\v 2 I have loved you, says Jehovah. Yet you say, Wherein have you loved us? Was not Esau Jacob’s brother? says Jehovah: yout
I loved Jacob;
\v 3 but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and gave
his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness.
\v 4 Whereas Edom says, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste places; thus says Jehovah of hosts, They
shall build, but I will throw down; and men shall call them The border of wickedness, and The people against whom Jehovah has
indignation for ever.
\v 5 And your eyous shall see, and you shall say, Jehovah be magnified beyond the border of Israel.
\p
\v 6 A son honoreth his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father, where is mine honor? and if I am a master,
where is my fear? says Jehovah of hosts to you, O priests, that despise my name. And you say, Wherein have we despised your
name?
\v 7 You offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And you say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that you say, The table of Jehovah
is contemptible.
\v 8 And when you offer the blind for sacrifice, it is no evil! and when you offer the lame and sick, it is no evil! Present it
now to your governor; will he be pleased with thee? or will he accept your person? says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 9 And now, I pray you, entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious to us: this has been by your means: will he
accept any of your persons? says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 10 Oh that there were one among you that would shut the doors, that you might not kindle
fire on mine altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, says Jehovah of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at
your hand.
\v 11 For from the rising of the sun even to the going down of the same my name
shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense
shall be offered to my name, and a pure offering: for my name
shall be great among the Gentiles, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 12 But you profane it, in that you say, The table of Jehovah is polluted, and the fruit thereof, even its food, is
contemptible.
\v 13 You say also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and you have snuffed at it, says Jehovah of hosts; and you have brought that
which was taken by violence, and the lame, and the sick; thus you bring the offering: should I accept this at your hand? says
Jehovah.
\v 14 But cursed be the deceiver, who has in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrifices to the Lord a blemished thing;
for I am a great King, says Jehovah of hosts, and my name is terrible among the Gentiles.