\c 2
\p
\v 1 And now, O you priests, this commandment is for you.
\v 2 If you will not hear, and if you will not lay it to heart, to give glory to my name, says Jehovah of hosts, then will I
send the curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings; youa, I have cursed them already, because you do not lay it to heart.
\v 3 Behold, I will rebuke your seed, and will spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your feasts; and you shall be taken
away with it.
\v 4 And you shall know that I have sent this commandment to you, that my covenant may be with Levi, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 5 My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him that he might fear; and he feared me, and stood in awe
of my name.
\v 6 The law of truth was in his mouth, and unrighteousness was not found in his lips: he walked with me in peace and
uprightness, and turned many away from iniquity.
\v 7 For the priest’s lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth; for he is the messenger of Jehovah
of hosts.
\v 8 But you are turned aside out of the way; you have caused many to stumble in the law; you have corrupted the covenant of Levi,
says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 9 Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as you have not kept my ways, but
have had respect of persons in the law.
\p
\v 10 Have we not all one father? has not one God created us? why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother,
profaning the covenant of our fathers?
\v 11 Judah has dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah has profaned the
holiness of Jehovah which he loveth, and has married the daughter of a foreign god.
\v 12 Jehovah will cut off, to the man that does this, him that wakes and him that answereth, out of the tents of Jacob, and
him that offers an offering to Jehovah of hosts.
\v 13 And this again you do: you cover the altar of Jehovah with tears, with weeping, and with sighing, insomuch that he
regards not the offering any more, neither receiveth it with good will at your hand.
\v 14 Yet you say, Wherefore? Because Jehovah has been witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have
dealt treacherously, though she is your companion, and the wife of your covenant.
\v 15 And did he not make one, although he had the residue of the Spirit? And wherefore one? He sought a godly seed. Therefore
take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth.
\v 16 For I hate putting away, says Jehovah, the God of Israel, and him that covers his garment with violence, says Jehovah
of hosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that you deal not treacherously.
\p
\v 17 You have wearied Jehovah with your words. Yout you say, Wherein have we wearied him? In that you say, Every one that does
evil is good in the sight of Jehovah, and he delights in them; or where is the God of justice?