\c 3
\p
\v 1 Behold, I send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his
temple; and the messenger of the covenant, whom you desire, behold, he cometh, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 2 But who can abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth? for he is like a refiner’s fire, and like
fullers’ soap:
\v 3 and he will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi, and refine them as gold and
silver; and they shall offer to Jehovah offerings in righteousness.
\v 4 Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant to Jehovah, as in the days of old, and as in ancient years.
\v 5 And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers,
and against the false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and
that turn aside the sojourner from his right, and fear not me, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 6 For I, Jehovah, change not; therefore ye, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed.
\p
\v 7 From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from mine ordinances, and have not kept them. Return to me, and I
will return to you, says Jehovah of hosts. But you say, Wherein shall we return?
\v 8 Will a man rob God? yout you rob me. But you say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings.
\v 9 You are cursed with the curse; for you rob me, even this whole nation.
\v 10 Bring you the whole tithe into the store-house, that there may be food in my house, and prove me now herewith, says
Jehovah of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room
enough to receive it.
\v 11 And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your
vine cast its fruit before the time in the field, says Jehovah of hosts.
\v 12 And all nations shall call you happy; for you shall be a delightsome land, says Jehovah of hosts.
\p
\v 13 Your words have been stout against me, says Jehovah. Yet you say, What have we spoken against thee?
\v 14 You have said, It is vain to serve God; and what profit is it that we have kept his charge, and that we have walked
mournfully before Jehovah of hosts?
\v 15 And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are built up; yea, they tempt God, and escape.
\p
\v 16 Then they that feared Jehovah spoke one with another; and Jehovah hearkened, and heard, and a book of remembrance was
written before him, for them that feared Jehovah, and that thought upon his name.
\v 17 And they shall be mine, says Jehovah of hosts, even mine own possession, in the day that I make; and I will
spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serves him.
\v 18 Then shall you return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serves God and him that serves
him not.