\c 18
\s Acts 18:1-4
\sr In Corinth, Paul helped many people to become believers.
\p
\v 1 After that, Paul left Athens city and went to Corinth city.
\v 2 There he met a Jew whose name was Aquila, who grew up in Pontus province. Aquila and his wife Priscilla had recently come from Rome, in Italy. They had previously left Rome because Claudius, the Roman Emperor, had ordered that all the Jews must leave Rome. Paul went to see Aquila and Priscilla.
\v 3 Those two made tents to earn money. Paul also made tents, so he stayed with them and they all worked together.
\v 4 Every Sabbath, Paul went to the Jewish meeting place, where he spoke forcefully to both Jews and non-Jews. He repeatedly tried to persuade them that Jesus is the Messiah.
\s Acts 18:5-8
\sr Paul helped many non-Jews become believers.
\p
\v 5 Then Silas and Timothy arrived there from Macedonia province. After they arrived, Paul did not make tents anymore. He used all his time preaching the message about Jesus in the Jewish meeting place. He continued to tell the Jews that the Messiah they knew about was Jesus.
\v 6 But the Jews began to oppose Paul and to say evil things about him. So he shook the dust from his clothes to show them that they were displeasing God. Then he said to them, "If God punishes you, it will be your , not mine! From now on I will go and preach to non-Jewish people!"
\v 7 So Paul left the worship house and went into a house that was next to it, and preached there. Titius Justus, the owner of the house, was a non-Jewish man who had accepted what the Jews believe.
\v 8 After that, the ruler of the Jewish meeting place, whose name was Crispus, and all of his family  believed in the Lord Jesus. Many other people in Corinth who listened to Paul also believed in Jesus. Then they were baptized. But there were people who still opposed Paul and his preaching.
\s Acts 18:9-11
\sr Jesus commanded Paul to continue speaking about him, so Paul did that.
\p
\v 9 One night Paul had a vision in which the Lord Jesus said to him, "Do not be afraid of those who oppose you. Instead, you should continue speaking to people about me. Do not stop,
\v 10 because I will help you and no one will be able to harm you here. Keep telling them about me, because there are many people in this city who will believe in me."
\v 11 So Paul stayed in Corinth for a year and a half, teaching the people the message from God about Jesus.
\s Acts 18:12-17
\sr Gallio refused to judge Paul.
\p
\v 12 When Gallio was the Roman governor of Achaia province, the Jewish leaders  there got together and seized Paul. They took him before the governor and accused him,
\v 13 saying, "This man is teaching people a false religion, leading them to worship God in ways that are contrary to our Jewish laws."
\v 14 When Paul was about to speak  to defend himself, Gallio said to the Jews, "If this man had acted deceitfully or disobeyed any of our Roman laws, I would listen patiently to what you Jews want to tell me.
\v 15 However, you are merely arguing about words and names and your own Jewish laws, so you yourselves need to resolve this. I refuse to judge these things!"
\v 16 After Gallio had said that, he commanded some soldiers that they expel those Jewish leaders from the courtroom.
\v 17 Then the mob grabbed the leader of the Jewish meeting place, Sosthenes. They beat him, right there in front of the courthouse. But Gallio did nothing about it.
\s Acts 18:18-21
\sr At Ephesus, Paul parted from Priscilla and Aquila.
\p
\v 18 Paul stayed on with the believers in Corinth for many days in order to partially complete a vow that he had taken. Then they got on a ship and sailed for Syria province.
\v 19 They arrived at Ephesus city, and Priscilla and Aquila stayed there.
\p Before Paul left Ephesus, he entered the Jewish meeting place and lectured to the Jews.
\v 20 They asked him to stay longer, but he refused.
\v 21 But, as he left, he told them, "I will come back, if God wills me to do that." Then, because he wanted to be in Jerusalem to finish completing that vow, he got ona ship that sailed from Ephesus.
\s Acts 18:22-23
\sr Paul visited Jerusalem, then he went on to Antioch in Syria and then he returned to visit the believers throughout Galatia and Phrygia.
\p
\v 22 When the ship arrived at Caesarea, a port city, Paul got off. He went up to Jerusalem and greeted the believers there. Then he went back down to Antioch city in Syria province.
\p
\v 23 Paul spent some time with the believers there. Then he left Antioch and traveled to several towns that he had visited previously in Galatia and Phrygia provinces. He taught all of the believers more of the message from God about Jesus.
\s Acts 18:24-26
\sr Priscilla and Aquila instructed Apollos about the gospel.
\p
\v 24 While Paul was traveling in Galatia and Phrygia, a Jewish man whose name was Apollos came to Ephesus. He was a native of Alexandria city. He spoke eloquently and he knew the Scriptures thoroughly.
\v 25 Other believers had taught him some things about how the Lord Jesus desires that people should conduct themselves, and he taught those things very enthusiastically to people. He had heard some of the things that Jesus did and said, and he taught those facts accurately to people. However, he was teaching incompletely about Jesus, because he knew only what John the Baptizer had taught people whom he baptized.
\v 26 Apollos went to the Jewish meeting place, and he told the people there very confidently the things that he had learned. When Priscilla and Aquila heard what he taught, they invited him to their home. There they explained more accurately to him the way that God gives people eternal life.
\s Acts 18:27-28
\sr Apollos helped believers in Achaia.
\p
\v 27 When Apollos decided that he would like to go to Achaia province, the believers in Ephesus told him that it would be good for him to do that. So they wrote a letter to the believers in Achaia saying that they should welcome Apollos. So Apollos got on a ship and went to Corinth. After he arrived, he greatly helped those whom God had kindly enabled to believe in Jesus.
\v 28 Apollos was vigorously arguing publicly with the leaders of the Jews while many other people listened. By quoting from the Scriptures, he proved to them that Jesus was the Messiah.
