\c 20
\s Acts 20:1-6
\sr After being in Macedonia and Greece, Paul went to Troas.
\p
\v 1 After the people at Ephesus had stopped rioting, Paul summoned the believers. He encouraged them to continue to trust in the Lord Jesus. Soon after that, he told them "Goodbye" and left to go to Macedonia province.
\v 2 After he arrived there, he visited each town where there were believers and encouraged them. Then he arrived in Greece province, which is also called Achaia.
\v 3 He stayed there for three months. Then he planned to return to Syria by ship, but he heard that some of the Jews  in that area were planning to kill him as he traveled. So he decided instead to go by land, and he traveled again through Macedonia.
\v 4 The men who were going to travel with him to Jerusalem were Sopater, who was a son of Pyrrhus, who grew up in Berea town; Aristarchus and Secundus, who were from Thessalonica city; Gaius, who was from Derbe town; Timothy, who was from Galatia province; and Tychicus and Trophimus who were from Asia province.
\v 5 Those seven men went ahead of Paul and me, Luke, by ship from Macedonia, so they got to Troas before we did and waited for the two of us there.
\v 6 But we two arrived at Troas and we met the other men who had traveled there ahead of us. Then we all stayed in Troas for seven days.
\s Acts 20:7-12
\sr At Troas, Paul encouraged believers by resurrecting Eutychus.
\p
\v 7 On Sunday evening. Paul spoke to the believers. He continued teaching them until midnight, because he was planning to leave Troas the next day.
\v 8 Many oil lamps were burning in the upstairs room in which we had gathered, so the fumes caused some people to become sleepy.
\v 9 A young man whose name was Eutychus was there. He was seated on the sill of an open windowon the third story of the house. As Paul continued talking for a long time, Eutychus became sleepier and sleepier. Finally, he was sound asleep. He fell out of the window from the third story down to the ground. Some of the believers went down immediately and picked him up. But he was dead.
\v 10 Paul also went down. He lay down and stretched out on top of the young man and put his arms around him. Then he said to the people who were standing around, "Do not worry, he is alive again now!"
\v 11 Then Paul, along with the others, went upstairs again and they ate the Lord's Supper and other food . Afterwards, Paul conversed with the believers until dawn. Then he left.
\v 12 The other people took the young man home, and were greatly encouraged because he was alive again.
\s Acts 20:13-16
\sr Paul and his companions traveled from Troas to Miletus.
\p
\v 13 We then went to the ship. Paul did not get on the ship with us in Troas, because he preferred to go more quickly overland to Assos town. The rest of us got on the ship and sailed for Assos.
\v 14 We met Paul in Assos. He got on the ship with us, and we sailed to Mitylene town.
\v 15 The day after we reached Mitylene, we sailed from there and arrived at a place near KiosIsland. The day after that, we sailed to SamosIsland. The next day we left Samos and sailed to Miletus town.
\v 16 Miletus was just south of Ephesus city. Paul had earlier decided that he would not get on a ship that would stop at Ephesus, because he did not want to spend several days in Asia province. If possible, he wanted to arrive in Jerusalem by the time of the Pentecost festival, and the time of that festival was near.
\s Acts 20:17-21
\sr Paul reminded the Ephesian elders how he had conducted himself and had taught them.
\p
\v 17 When the ship arrived at Miletus, Paul sent a messenger to Ephesus to ask the elders of the congregation to come to talk with him.
\p
\v 18 When the elders arrived, Paul said to them, "You personally know how I conducted myself among you the entire time that I was with you, from the first day when I arrived here in Asia province until the day I left.
\v 19 You know how I was serving the Lord Jesus very humbly and how I sometimes wept about people. You also know how I suffered because the Jews  who were not believers often tried to harm me.
\v 20 You also know that, as I preached God's message to you, I never left out anything that would help you. You know that I taught you God's message when many people were present, and I also went to your homes and taught it there.
\v 21 I preached both to Jews and to non-Jews, telling them all that they must turn away from their sinful behavior. I also told them they should believe in our Lord Jesus."
\s Acts 20:22-31
\sr Paul told them that they would never see him again.
\p
\v 22 "And now note this: I am going to Jerusalem, because God's Spirit has clearly shown me that I must go there. I do not know what will happen to me while I am there.
\v 23 But I do know that in each city where I have stopped, the Holy Spirit has told me.
\v 24 But I do not care even if people kill me, if first I am able to finish the work  that the Lord Jesus has told me to do. He appointed me to tell people the good message that God saves us by doing for us what we do not deserve.
\v 25 I have preached to you the message about how God desires to rule people's lives. But now I know that today is the last time that you fellow believers will see me .
\v 26 So I want you all to understand that if anyone who has heard me preach dies without trusting in Jesus, it is not my fault ,
\v 27 because I told you .
\v 28 You leaders must continue to believe and obey God's message. You must also help all the other believers  yourselves and the other believers as a shepherdwatches over his sheep. God bought them with the blood that flowed from his Son's body on the cross.
\v 29 I know very well that after I leave, people who teach  false doctrines will come among you and will do great harm to the believers. They will be like fierce wolves that kill the sheep.
\v 30 Even in your own group of believers there will be some who will deceive other believers by teaching them messages that are false. They will teach those messages so that some people will believe them and will become their followers.
\v 31 So watch out that none of you stops believing the true message about our Lord Jesus! Remember that day and night for about three years I repeatedly taught you that message, and warned you with tearsin my eyes not to believe any other message."
\s Acts 20:32-35
\sr Paul entrusted them to God and to the message about God's goodness.
\p
\v 32 "Now as I leave you I ask God to protect you and to keep you believing the message that he saves us by doing for us what we do not deserve. If you continue believing the message that I told you, you will become spiritually mature, and God will give you the blessings that he has promised to give to all of those who belong to him.
\p
\v 33 As for myself, I have not desired anyone's money  or fine clothing.
\v 34 You yourselves know that I have worked with my hands  to earn the money that my companions and I needed.
\v 35 In everything that I did, I showed you that we should remember that our Lord Jesus himself said, 'You are happy when people give you what you need, but God will be happy with you when you give other people what they need.'~"
\s Acts 20:36-38
\sr Paul prayed with them and they sadly bade him farewell.
\p
\v 36 When Paul had finished speaking, he knelt down with all of the elders and prayed.
\v 37 They all cried a lot, and they hugged Paul and kissed him.
\v 38 They were especially sad because he had said that they would never see him  again. Then they all went with him to the ship.
