\c 21
\s Acts 21:1-3
\sr Paul, Luke and his other companions traveled from Miletus to Tyre.
\p
\v 1 After we said goodbye to the elders from Ephesus, we got on the ship and traveled on the water to CosIsland, where the ship stopped for the night. The next day we went in the ship from Cos to Rhodes Island, where the ship stopped again. The day after that we went to Patara town, where the ship stopped. This was on Patara Island.
\v 2 At Patara we left that ship, and someone told us that there was a ship that would be going to Phoenicia region. So we got on that ship, and it left.
\v 3 We traveled over the sea until we could see CyprusIsland. We passed to the south of the island and continued sailing until we arrived at Phoenicia region, in Syria province. We arrived at Tyrecity. The ship was going to stay there several days, because its workers had to unload the cargo.
\s Acts 21:4-6
\sr At Tyre, believers warned Paul not to go to Jerusalem, but he went on.
\p
\v 4 Someone told us where the believers in Tyre lived, so we in Jerusalem, they told Paul that he should not go there.
\v 5 But when it was time for the ship to leave again, we prepared to continue going to Jerusalem. When we left Tyre, all the men and their wives and children went with us to the edge of the sea. We all knelt down there on the sand and prayed.
\v 6 After we all said goodbye, Paul and we his companions got on the ship, and the other believers returned to their own homes.
\s Acts 21:7-9
\sr Paul and his companions sailed from Tyre to Caesarea.
\p
\v 7 After we left Tyre, we continued on that ship to Ptolemais city. There were believers there, and we greeted them and stayed with them that night.
\v 8 The next day we left Ptolemais and sailed to Caesarea city, where we stayed in the home of Philip, who spent his days telling others how to become disciples of Jesus. He was one of the seven men whom the believers in Jerusalem had chosen to care for the widows.
\v 9 He had four daughters who were not married. Each of them frequently spoke messages that the Holy Spirit had revealed to them.
\s Acts 21:10-14
\sr The believers could not persuade Paul from going on to Jerusalem.
\p
\v 10 After we had been in Philip's house for several days, a believer whose name was Agabus came down from Judea district and arrived in Caesarea. He frequently spoke messages that the Holy Spirit had told him.
\v 11 Coming over to where we were, he took off Paul's belt. Then he tied his own feet and hands with it and said, "The Holy Spirit says, 'The Jewish leaders  in Jerusalem will tie up the hands and feet of the owner of this belt, like this, and they will put him in the hands of non-Jewish people as a prisoner.'"
\v 12 When the rest of us heard that, we and other believers there repeatedly pled with Paul, "Please do not go up to Jerusalem!"
\v 13 But Paul replied, "Please stop crying and trying to discourage me  the Lord Jesus."
\v 14 When we!"
\s Acts 21:15-16
\sr Paul and other believers went from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
\p
\v 15 After those days in Caesarea, we prepared our things and left to go by land up to Jerusalem.
\v 16 Some of the believers from Caesarea also went with us. They took us to stay in the house of a man whose name was Mnason. He was from Cyprus Island, and he had believed in Jesus when people were first beginning to hear the message about him.
\s Acts 21:17-26
\sr Paul agreed with church leaders to perform a Jewish purifying ritual.
\p
\v 17 When we arrived in Jerusalem, a group of the believers greeted us happily.
\v 18 The next day Paul and the rest of us went to speak with James, who was the leader of the congregation there. All of the other leaders of the congregation in Jerusalem were also there.
\v 19 Paul greeted them, and then he reported all of the things that God had enabled him to do among the non-Jewish people.
\v 20 When they heard that, James and the other elders said, "Praise the Lord!" Then one of them said to Paul, "Brother all continue very carefully to obey the laws that Moses gave us.
\v 21 But our fellow Jewish believers have been told  do not believe that this is true.
\v 22 But our fellow Jewish believers will certainly hear that you have arrived, and they will be angry with you. So you need to do something  to show them that what they heard about you is not true.
\v 23 So you should do what we suggest to you. There are four men among us who have strongly promised to God about something.
\v 24 Go with these men to the Temple and ritually purify yourself along with them. Then, when it is time for them to offer the sacrifices for that ritual, pay for what they offer as sacrifices. After that, they can shave their heads to show that they have done what they promised to do. And when people see you in the courts of the Temple with those men, they will know that what they have been told  about you is not true. Instead, all of them will know that you obey all our Jewish laws and rituals.
\v 25 As for the non-Jewish believers, we elders here in Jerusalem have talked about which of our laws they should obey, and we wrote them a letter, telling them what we decided. We wrote that they should not eat meat that people have offered as a sacrifice to any idol, that they should not eat blood from animals and that they should not eat meat from animals that people have killed by stranglingthem. We also told them that they should not have sex with someone to whom they are not married."
\v 26 So Paul agreed to do what they asked, and the next day he took the four men, and together they ritually purified themselves. After that, Paul went to the Temple courts and told the priest what day they would finish purifying themselves ritually and when they would offer the animals as sacrifices for each of them.
\s Acts 21:27-30
\sr Some Jews seized Paul in the Temple courts.
\p
\v 27-29 When the seven days for purifying themselves were nearly finished, Paul returned to the Temple courtyard. Some Jews from Asia province saw him there, and they were very angry at him. On another day they had seen Paul walking around in Jerusalem with Trophimus, who was a non-Jew. Their laws did not permit non-Jews to be in the Temple, and they thought that Paul had brought Trophimus into the Temple courtyard that day. So they called out to many other Jews who were in the Temple courtyard to help them seize  Paul. They shouted, "Fellow Israelites, come and help us to punish this man! This is the one who is constantly teaching people wherever he goes that they should despise the Jewish people. He teaches people that they should no longer obey the laws of Moses nor respect this holy Temple. He has even brought non-Jews here into the court of our Temple, causing God to consider it no longer holy!"
\v 30 People throughout  immediately, so that the people would not riot inside the Temple area.
\s Acts 21:31-32
\sr Roman soldiers ran to where those Jews were trying to kill Paul.
\p
\v 31 While they were trying to kill Paul, someone ran to the fort near the Temple and told the Roman commander that many  in Jerusalem were rioting at the Temple.
\v 32 The commander quickly took some officers and a large group of soldiers and ran to the Temple area where the crowd was. When the crowd of people who were yelling and beating Paul saw the commander and the soldiers coming, they stopped beating him.
\s Acts 21:33-40
\sr After the commander arrested Paul, soldiers carried him towards the fort.
\p
\v 33 The commander came to where Paul was and seized him. He commanded soldiers to fasten a chain to each of Paul's arms. Then he asked the people in the crowd, "Who is this man, and what has he done?"
\v 34 Some of the many people there were shouting one thing, and some were shouting something else. Because they continued shouting so loudly, the commander could not understand what they were shouting. So he commanded that Paul be taken  into the barracks so that he could question him there.
\v 35 The soldiers led Paul to the steps of the barracks, but many people continued to follow them, trying to kill Paul. So the commander told the soldiers to carry Paul up the steps into the barracks.
\v 36 The crowd that followed kept shouting, "Kill him! Kill him!"
\p
\v 37 As Paul was about to be taken 
\v 38 "I thought that you who wanted to rebel against the government not long ago, and who took four thousand violent terrorists with him out into the desert, so that we could not catch him?"
\v 39 Paul answered, "No, I am not! I am a Jew. I was born in Tarsus, which is an important  let me speak to the people."
\v 40 Then the commander permitted Paul to speak. So Paul stood on the steps and motioned with his hand for the crowd to be quiet. And after the people in the crowd became quiet, Paul spoke to them in their own Hebrew language .
