\c 23
\s Acts 23:1-5
\sr Paul apologized for unknowingly denouncing the high priest.
\p
\v 1 Paul looked straight at the Jewish council members and said: "My fellow Jews, all my life I have lived respecting our God, and I do not know of anything that I have done that I knew was wrong."
\v 2 When Ananias the high priest heard what Paul said, he commanded the men who were standing near Paul to hit him on the mouth.
\v 3 Then Paul said to Ananias, "God will punish you without having proved that I have done anything that is wrong!"
\v 4 The men who were standing near Paul rebuked him. They said, "Are not you afraid to insult God's servant, our high priest?"
\v 5 Paul replied, "My fellow Jews, I am sorry that I said that. I did not know that the man who told one of you to hit me is the high priest. If I had known that, I would not have insulted our high priest, because I know that it is written  in our Jewish law, 'Do not speak evil of any of your rulers!'"
\s Acts 23:6-10
\sr The commander rescued Paul from the Council members.
\p
\v 6 Paul realized that some of the Council members were Sadducees and others were Pharisees. So, in order to cause the Pharisees and Sadducees to argue among themselves instead of accusing him, he called out loudly in the Council hall, "My fellow Jews, I am a Pharisee, like my father was. I have been put ."
\v 7 When he said that, the Pharisees and Sadducees started to argue with one another about whether people who have died will become alive again or not.
\v 8 The Sadducees believe that after people die, they will not become alive again. They also believe that there are no angels and no other kinds of spirits. But the Pharisees believe that all people who have died will one day become alive again. They also believe that there are angels and other kinds of spirits.
\v 9 So they were divided think that this man has done nothing wrong." Another said, "Maybe an angel or some other spirit really spoke to him and what he says is true."
\v 10 Then the Pharisees and Sadducees argued even more loudly with one another. As a result, the commander was afraid that they would tear Paul to pieces. So he commanded soldiers to go down from the barracks and forcefully take Paul away from the Council members and bring him up into the barracks. So the soldiers did that.
\s Acts 23:11
\sr The Lord revealed that Paul would tell people about him in Rome.
\p
\v 11 That night, in a vision Paul saw the Lord Jesus come and stand near him. The Lord said to him, "Be courageous! You have told people here in Jerusalem about me, and you must tell people in Rome about me, too."
\s Acts 23:12-15
\sr Some Jews plotted to kill Paul.
\p
\v 12 The next morning some of the Jews  who hated Paul met secretly and talked about how they could kill him. They promised themselves that they would not eat or drink anything until they had killed him. They asked God to curse them if they did not do what they promised.
\v 13 There were more than forty men who planned to do that.
\v 14 They went to the chief priests and Jewish elders and told them, "God has heard us promise have killed Paul.
\v 15 So we request that you go to the commander and ask him, on behalf of the whole Jewish Council, to bring Paul down to us from the barracks. Tell the commander that you want to question Paul some more. But we will be waiting to kill Paul while he is on the way here."
\s Acts 23:16-22
\sr Paul's nephew warned that some Jews had plotted to kill Paul.
\p
\v 16 But the son of Paul's sister heard what they were planning to do, so he went into the barracks and told Paul.
\v 17 When Paul heard that, he called one of the officers and said to him, "Please take this young man to the commander, because he needs to tell him something important."
\v 18 So the officer took Paul's nephew to the commander. The officer said to the commander, "That prisoner, Paul, called me and said, 'Please take this young man to the commander, because he needs to tell him something important.'"
\v 19 The commander took the young man by the hand, led him off by himself, and asked him, "What do you need to tell me?"
\v 20 He said, "There are some  to bring Paul before their Council tomorrow. They will say that they want to ask him some more questions. But that is not true.
\v 21 Do not do what they ask you to agree to do what they are asking you to do."
\v 22 The commander said to Paul's young nephew, "Do not tell anyone that you have told me about their plan." Then he sent the young man away.
\s Acts 23:23-35
\sr Many soldiers escorted Paul safely to Governor Felix at Caesarea.
\p
\v 23 Then the commander called two of his officers and told them, "Get a group of two hundred soldiers ready to travel. Take along seventy soldiers riding horses, and two hundred other soldiers carrying spears. All of you must be ready to leave at nine o'clock tonight, to go down to Caesarea city.
\v 24 And take along horses for Paul and those accompanying him to ride, and safely escort him to the palace of Governor Felix."
\v 25 Then the commander wrote a letter to send to the governor. This is what he wrote:
\v 26 "I am Claudius Lysias writing to you. You, Felix, are our governor whom we respect, and I sincerely send you my greetings.
\v 27 I have sent you this man, Paul, because certain Jews seized him and were about to kill him. But I heard someone tell me that he is a Roman citizen, so I and my soldiers went and rescued him.
\v 28 I wanted to know what those Jews were saying that he had done wrong, so I took him to their Jewish Council.
\v 29 I listened while they asked this man questions and he answered them. The things they accused him about were entirely concerned with their Jewish laws. But Paul has not disobeyed any of our Roman laws. So our officials should not execute him or even put him in prison .
\v 30 Someone told me that some  what they are accusing him about."
\p
\v 31 So the soldiers did what the commander commanded them, taking this letter with them. They got Paul and took him with them during the night down to Antipatris city.
\v 32 The next day, the foot soldiers returned to the barracks in Jerusalem and the soldiers who rode horses went on with Paul.
\v 33 When the men escorting Paul arrived in Caesarea, they delivered the letter to the governor, and they delivered Paul to the governor. Then the horsemen returned to Jerusalem.
\v 34 The governor read the letter and then he said to Paul, "What province are you from?" Paul answered, "I am from Cilicia province."
\v 35 Then the governor said, "When the people who have accused you in the palace that King Herod the Great had built.
