\c 24
\s Acts 24:1-9
\sr Paul defended himself, and Felix promised to judge him.
\p
\v 1 Five days later Ananias the high priest, having heard that Paul was now in Caesarea, went down there from Jerusalem, along with some other Jewish elders and a lawyer whose name was Tertullus. There they formally told the governor what Paul had done that they considered wrong.
\v 2 The governor commanded Paul to be brought  have lived well, Or: peacefully. By planning wisely, you have improved many things in this province.
\v 3 Therefore, sir, we always gratefully acknowledge everything that you have done for all of us, wherever you have done those things.
\v 4 But, so that I will not take up too much of your time, I earnestly request that you kindly listen to me very briefly.
\v 5 We to riot. Also, he leads the entire group whom people call 'the followers of the Nazarene', a false sect.
\v 6 He even tried to do things in the Temple in Jerusalem that would defile it
\v 7 But Lysias, the commander at the Roman fort, came with his soldiers and forcefully took him away from us .
\v 8 Lysias also commanded Paul's accusers to come here and accuse Paul before you. If you question him yourself, you will be able to learn that all these things about which we are accusing him are true."
\v 9 When the Jewish leaders who were listening heard that, they told the governor that what Tertullus had said was true.
\s Acts 24:10-21
\sr Paul disproved what they had said, but admitted that he was a Christian.
\p
\v 10 Then the governor motioned with his hand to Paul that he should speak. So Paul replied. He said, "Governor Felix, I know that you have judged this Jewish province for many years. Therefore I gladly defend myself, confident that you will listen to me and will judge me fairly.
\v 11 You I went up went up to Jerusalem to worship God. That is not enough time to cause a lot of trouble.
\v 12 No one can claim legitimately that they saw me arguing with anyone at the Temple courts because I did not do that. No one can claim legitimately that they saw me causing people to riot in any Jewish meeting place, or causing trouble anywhere else in Jerusalem city, because I did not do that.
\v 13 So they cannot prove to you the things about which they are now accusing me.
\v 14 But I admit to you.
\v 15 I confidently expect, just like some of these men also expect, that some day God will cause everyone who has died to become alive again. He will cause to become alive again both those who were righteous and those who were wicked.
\v 16 Because I am confidently waiting for that day, I always try to do what pleases God and what other people think is right.
\v 17 After I had been in other places for several years, I returned to Jerusalem. I went there to deliver some money to my fellow Jews who are poor, and to offer sacrifices to God.
\v 18 Some Jews saw me in the temple courts after I had completed the ritual by which a person is made  pure. There was no crowd with me, and I was not causing people to riot.
\v 19 But it was some other Jews who had come from Asia province who really caused people to riot. They should be here in front of you to accuse me, if they thought that I did somethingwrong.
\v 20 But if they do not want to do that  what they think I did that was wrong, when I defended myself before their Council.
\v 21 They might say that one thing that I shouted as I stood before them was wrong. What I said was, 'You are judging me today because I believe that God will cause all people who have died to become alive again.'"
\s Acts 24:22-23
\sr Governor Felix adjourned the trial.
\p
\v 22 Felix already knew quite a lot about what people called 'the way of Jesus'. But he did not let Paul or his accusers continue to speak. Instead, he said to them, "Later, when Commander Lysias comes down here, I will decide these matters that concern you all."
\v 23 Then he told the officer who was guarding Paul to take Paul back to the prison and make sure that Paul was guarded all the time. But he said that Paul was not to be chained , and if his friends came to visit him, the officer should allow them to help Paul in any way that they wished.
\s Acts 24:24-27
\sr Felix often talked to Paul, hoping that Paul would give him money.
\p
\v 24 Several days later Felix and his wife Drusilla, who was a Jew, came back to Caesarea after having been away for a few days. Felix commanded Paul to be brought in . Then Felix listened to what Paul said to him. Paul spoke about what Christians believe about the Messiah Jesus.
\v 25 Paul explained to them about what God requires people to do in order to please him. He also explained about God requiring people to control how they act. Paul also told him that there will be a time when God will judge people. Felix became alarmed after hearing those things. So he said to Paul, "That is all I want to hear now. When there is a time that is convenient I will ask you to come to me again."
\v 26 Felix said that because he hoped that Paul would give him some money for allowing Paul to get out of prison. So he repeatedly sent for Paul to come, and Paul repeatedly went and talked with him. But he did notgive Felix any money, and Felix did not command his soldiers to release Paul from prison.
\p
\v 27 Felix let Paul remain in prison, because he wanted to please the Jewish leaders and he knew that they did not want him to release Paul. But when two years had passed, Porcius Festus became governor in place of Felix.
