\c 25
\s Acts 25:1-5
\sr Festus told the Jews to go and accuse Paul at Caesarea.
\p
\v 1 Festus, who was now the governor of the province, arrived in Caesarea, and three days later he went up to Jerusalem.
\v 2 In Jerusalem, the chief priests and other Jewish leaders formally told Festus about the things that they said that Paul had done that were wrong.
\v 3 They urgently asked Festus to do something for them. They asked him to command soldiers to bring Paul to Jerusalem, so that Festus could put him on trial there. But they were planning that some of them would hide near the road and wait for Paul and kill him when he was traveling to Jerusalem.
\v 4 But Festus replied, "Paul is in Caesarea, and is being guarded  there. I myself will go down to Caesarea in a few days.
\v 5 Choose some of your leaders to go there with me. While they are there, they can accuse Paul of the wrong things that you say that he has done."
\s Acts 25:6-12
\sr Paul appealed to Caesar, so Festus agreed to that.
\p
\v 6 After Festus had been in Jerusalem eight or ten days, he went back down to Caesarea. Several of the Jewish leaders also went there. The next day Festus commanded that Paul be brought  to him in the assembly hall so that he could judge him.
\v 7 After Paul was brought to the assembly hall, the Jewish leaders from Jerusalem gathered around him to accuse him. They told Festus that Paul had committed many crimes. But they could not prove that Paul had done the things about which they accused him.
\v 8 Then Paul spoke to defend himself. He said, "I have done nothing wrong against the laws of us."
\v 9 But Festus wanted to please the Jewish leaders, so he asked Paul, "Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem so that I can listen as these men accuse you there?"
\v 10 But Paul did not want to do that. So he said to Festus, "No, I am not willing to go to Jerusalem! I am now standing before you, and you. I have not wronged the Jewish people at all, as you know very well.
\v 11 If I had done something bad for which I should be executed  should judge me at Rome."
\v 12 Then after Festus conferred with the men who regularly advised him, he replied to Paul, "You have formally requested that I should send you to the emperor in Rome. So I will arrange for you to go therein order that he can judge you."
\s Acts 25:13-22
\sr Festus told King Agrippa about Paul.
\p
\v 13 After several days, King Herod Agrippa arrived at Caesarea, along with his younger sister Bernice. They had come to formally welcome Festus as the new Governor of the province.
\v 14 King Agrippa and Bernice stayed many days in Caesarea. While they were there, Festus told Agrippa about Paul. He said to the king, "There is a man here whom Felix kept in prisonwhile he was governor. He left himthere when his time as governor ended.
\v 15 When I went to Jerusalem, the chief priests and the other Jewish elders told me that this man had done many things against their laws. They asked me to condemn him to be executed .
\v 16 But I told them that when someone has been accused of a crime, we Romans do not immediately condemn that person. First, we command him to stand before the people who are accusing him and to say whether or not he has done those things. After that, the judge will decide what to do with him.
\v 17 So those Jews came here to Caesarea when I came. I did not delay. The day after we into the courtroom.
\v 18 The Jewish leaders did accuse him, but the things about which they accused him were not any of the evil crimes about which I thought they would accuse him.
\v 19 Instead, what they argued about with him were some teachings that some Jews believe and others do not believe. They argued about a man whose name was Jesus who had died, but the man they were accusing, whose name is Paul, kept saying, 'Jesus is alive again.'
\v 20 I did not know what questions to ask them, and I did not know how to judge concerning their dispute. So I asked Paul, 'Are you?'
\v 21 But Paul answered, 'No. I am not willing to go to Jerusalem! I want you in Rome."
\v 22 Then Agrippa said to Festus, "I myself would like to hear what that man says." Festus answered, "I will arrange for you to hear him tomorrow."
\s Acts 25:23-27
\sr Festus asked King Agrippa to tell him what to write to Caesar about Paul.
\p
\v 23 The next day Agrippa and Bernice came very ceremoniously to the assembly hall. Some Roman commanders and prominent men in Caesarea came with them. Then, Festus told an officer to bring Paul. So after the officer went to the prison and brought him,
\v 24 Festus said, "King Agrippa, and all the rest of you who are here, you see this man. Many  should not let him live any longer.
\v 25 But when I asked them to tell me what he had done, and they told me, I found out that he had not done anything for which he should be executed . However, he has asked that our emperor should judge his case, so I have decided to send him to Rome.
\v 26 But I do not know what specifically I should write to the emperor concerning him. That is why I have brought him here. I want you all to hear him speak, and I especially want you have questioned him, I may know what I should write to the emperor about him.
\v 27 It seems to me that it would be unreasonable to send a prisoner to the emperor in Rome without my specifying the things about which people are accusing him."
