\c 1
\p
\v 1 I, Paul, am writing this letter to you, Titus. God appointed me to be his servant and to be an apostle who represents Jesus Christ. God appointed me in order that I might teach those whom God has chosen to be his people to correctly believe in him. He wants me to teach them the true teachings about God, in order that they will learn to behave in a godly manner.
\v 2 As a result of my doing these things, they confidently expect that God will cause them to live forever. God, who never lies, promised before he created the world that his people would live forever.
\v 3 Then at the time that he chose, he revealed to us his message. Specifically, God our Savior gave this message to me, and he trusted me to proclaim it to people.
\v 4 Titus, I am writing this letter to you because you are like a true son  God our Father and Christ Jesus our Savior will continue to act kindly toward you and cause you to have inner peace.
\s Titus 1:5
\sr I want you to teach the believers and to appoint elders.
\p
\v 5 When I asked you to stay on Crete island, I wanted you to do these things: Teach the believers what they need to know so that they can understand correctly the spiritual matters about which some are teaching wrongly. Appoint elders in the congregation in each town in the manner in which I told you to do.
\s Titus 1:6-9
\sr Appoint as elders men whom no one can justly criticize.
\p
\v 6 When you appoint men as elders, you must choose men whom no one can justly accuse of habitually doing what is wrong . Specifically, appoint men who have been faithful to their wives. Appoint men whose children faithfully obey them. Do not appoint men whose children habitually do all the things that their bodies urge them to do, or who refuse to obey their parents.
\v 7 Leaders of the congregation must be men who, as everyone knows, habitually do what is good  money.
\v 8 Instead, they must be ones who welcome and take care of guests. They must be devoted to. They must be men who do what their minds tell them is right to do and not what their emotions, Or: desires urge them to do.
\v 9 They must firmly believe in the message about Jesus Christ exactly as I taught it, in order that they might be able to teach the believers what is correct and to urge them to follow it well. If they firmly accept our message, they will be able to convince those who oppose what is correct that they are wrong.
\s Titus 1:10-16
\sr Since there are many deceivers teaching what is false, who do not even know God themselves and are unable to do any good thing, rigorously convince those believers who follow false teachings that they are wrong in order that they will firmly believe in the correct teachings.
\p
\v 10 I say this because there are many people who oppose the correct teachings. They refuse to obey people who have authority over them, they talk on and on who insist we must obey all the Jewish rituals are especiallydoing this.
\v 11 You and the leaders whom you appoint should prevent such people from teaching the believers. They are causing whole families to stop believing in the correct teachings . They are teaching people only in order that people will give them money, which is very shameful for them to do.
\v 12 A man from Crete island whom they consider a prophet said, "My fellow Cretan people are always lying to one another! They are like dangerous wild animals !"
\v 13 The words that this man said about the Cretan people are still true, especially about their being liars. So, rigorously convince those Cretan believers that those false teachings are wrong. Tell them to firmly believe in the correct teachings.
\v 14 Teach them that they should no longer listen to the stories that the Jews made up. Especially they should refuse to obey those who reject our true teachings, because those people are teaching things that only come from human beings, not from God.
\v 15 Believers should reject what they teach about food, because no food that we eat can make us unacceptable to God if we are pure in our inner beings, and they do not even feel guilty when they do what is evil.
\v 16 Even though they claim. They do not obey God, and they are unable to do anything that he considers to be good. So God considers them to be absolutely disgusting!
