\c 8
\p
\v 1 Then Yahweh said to Moses, "Go back to the king and tell him, 'Yahweh says that you must let my people go, in order that they can worship me in the desert.
\v 2 But if you refuse to let them go, I will punish you by sending frogs to cover your country.
\v 3 Not only will the Nile River be full of frogs, but the frogs will come up out of the river into your house. They will come into your bedroom and onto your bed. They will be in the houses of your officials and all the rest of your people. They will even get into your ovens and your pans for mixing the materials for baking bread.
\v 4 The frogs will jump up on you and your officials and all the rest of your people.'~"
\p
\v 5 Yahweh also said to Moses, "Say this to Aaron: 'Hold your stick in your hand and stretch it out as though you were stretching it over the river, the canals, and over the pools, and cause frogs to come up from all this water and cover the land of Egypt.'~"
\v 6 After I told that to Aaron, he stretched out his hand as though he were stretching it over all the water in Egypt. And the frogs came up from the water and covered Egypt.
\v 7 But the men who performed magic did the same thing, and they caused more frogs to come up from the water onto the land.
\v 8 Then the king summoned Moses and said, "Ask Yahweh to take away these frogs from me and my people. After that happens, I will allow your people to go, in order that they can offer sacrifices to Yahweh."
\v 9 Moses said to the king, "I will be glad to pray for you and for your officials and for the rest of your people. I will ask Yahweh to get rid of the frogs from all your houses. The only frogs left will be those in the Nile River. Just tell me when I should pray."
\v 10 He replied, "Tomorrow." So Moses said, "I will do what you say, and then you will know that Yahweh God, the one we worship, is the only true god, and that there is no other god like him.
\v 11 The frogs will leave you and your officials and all the rest of your people. The only ones left will be in the Nile River."
\p
\v 12 Aaron and Moses prayed to Yahweh, asking him to take away all the frogs he had brought to the king's land.
\v 13 And Yahweh did just what Moses asked him to do. As a result, all the frogs in the houses, in their courtyards, and in their fields died.
\v 14 The people gathered together all the dead frogs into big piles, and the land stank from the smell.
\v 15 But when the king saw that the problem was ended, he became stubborn [IDI] again. And just as Yahweh had predicted, he would not pay attention to what Aaron and Moses suggested.
\s1 Moses and Aaron caused the land to be full of gnats
\p
\v 16 Then Yahweh said to Moses will become gnats, all over the land of Egypt."
\v 17 So they became gnats. The gnats covered the people and all their animals.
\v 18 The men who worked magic tried to cause gnats to appear, but they were unable to do it. So the gnats stayed on the people and on their animals.
\v 19 The men who worked magic said to the king, "It is God who has done this with his power  said, just as Yahweh had predicted.
\s1 Moses and Aaron caused the land to be filled with flies
\p
\v 20 Then Yahweh said to Moses, say to him, 'This is what Yahweh says to you: "Let my people go, in order that they may worship me in the desert.
\v 21 I warn you that if you do not let my people go, I will send swarms of flies to you. They will come on you and on your officials and on the rest of your people. The houses of all you Egyptians will be full of flies. They will even cover the ground on which you will be standing.
\v 22 But when that happens, I will treat the Goshen region, where my people live, differently. There will be no swarms of flies there. In that way, you will know that I, Yahweh, am doing these things here in this land.
\v 23 I will distinguish clearly between how I act toward my people and how I act toward your people. And this miracle is going to happen tomorrow!"~'~"
\p
\v 24 Early the next morning, Moses told that to the king, but the king would not pay any attention. So Yahweh did what he said he would do. He sent great swarms of flies into the palace of the king and into the houses of his officials. The whole country of Egypt was ruined by the flies.
\v 25 Then the king summoned Aaron and Moses and said, "You Israelite people can go and offer sacrifices to your god, but you must do it here in this land."
\v 26 But Moses!
\v 27 We need to travel for three days into the desert. There we will offer sacrifices to Yahweh, the God we worship, just as he commands  us."
\v 28 So the king said, "I will let your people go to offer sacrifices to Yahweh, your god, in the desert. But you must not go very far. Now pray for me!"
\v 29 Moses said, "Listen to me! After I leave you, I will pray to Yahweh, asking that tomorrow he will cause the swarms of flies to leave you and your officials and the rest of your people. But do not deceive us again by refusing to let our people go to offer sacrifices to Yahweh!"
\p
\v 30 Then Moses left the king and prayed to Yahweh.
\v 31 And Yahweh did what Moses asked, and he got rid of the swarms of flies from around the king and his officials and the rest of his people. No flies remained.
\v 32 But the king was stubborn [IDI] this time also, and he did not allow the Israelite people to go.
