\c 18
\s1 Moses' father-in-law, Jethro, came to visit him
\p
\v 1 Jethro, who was the priest for the Midian people-group, and who was also Moses' father-in-law, heard about all that God had done for the Israelite people. He heard about how Yahweh had brought them out of Egypt.
\v 2 Moses,
\v 3 bringing Zipporah and her two sons. One son was named Gershom, which sounds like the Hebrew word that means 'foreigner', because he had said, "I have been a foreigner living in another land."
\v 4 Her other son was named Eliezer, which sounds like the Hebrew words that mean 'God helps me', because he by the king of Egypt."
\p
\v 5 While Moses wife and two sons.
\v 6 Jethro had sent a message to Moses, "I, your father-in-law, Jethro, am coming to see you, bringing along your wife and her two sons!"
\v 7 So Moses went into Moses', Or: my tent.
\v 8 Moses.
\v 9 Jethro rejoiced when he heard all that Yahweh had done for the Israelite people.
\v 10 He said, "Praise Yahweh, who has rescued you from the powerful  Egyptian king and his army!
\v 11 Now I realize that Yahweh is greater than all other gods, because he rescued you from the power  of the proud Egyptians when they were causing you to suffer."
\v 12 Then Jethro brought an animal to sacrifice it by burning it completely on the altar as an offering, and he also offered other sacrifices to God. Aaron and the Israelite elders to eat a sacred meal with Jethro.
\s1 Jethro gave Moses some good advice about appointing judges
\p
\v 13 The next day, Moses, from the morning until the evening.
\v 14 When Jethro saw everything that Moses?"
\v 15 Moses replied, "I am doing this because the people keep coming to me to find out what God desires.
\v 16 When they have a dispute about something, they come to me, and they ask me to decide which of them is right. I also tell them all of God's laws and instructions."
\v 17 Jethro said to him, "What you are doing is not good for you or for the people.
\v 18 You and these people will wear yourselves out! This work is too much for you. You are not able to do it by yourself.
\v 19 Now listen to some good advice  I will give to you. If you do what I suggest, God will help you. You should continue to speak to God and tell him about the people's disputes.
\v 20 You should also teach them what God has commanded and instructed you. You should also explain to them how they should conduct their lives, and the things that they should do.
\v 21 In addition, you should choose some other men to help you. Choose men who have reverence for God and who will not accept bribes. Appoint some of them to make decisions for groups of ten people, some for groups of fifty people, some for groups of a hundred people, and some for groups of a thousand people.
\v 22 Allow them to serve permanently to settle disputes for the people. The difficult matters they can bring to you; but the matters that are not difficult, they can decide themselves. That will make the work easier for you, as they help you do that work.
\v 23 If you do that, and I think that God is telling you to do it , and all the people will be able to go home peacefully, with their disputes settled quickly".
\p
\v 24 Moses father-in-law Jethro suggested.
\v 25 Moses chose capable men from among the Israelite people.
\v 26 They were appointed permanently to decide about the people's disputes. They brought the difficult cases to Moses, but they decided the matters that were not difficult by themselves.
\v 27 Then Moses father-in-law, and Jethro returned home.
