\c 27
\s1 Instructions for the altar
\p
\v 1 "Tell them to make an altar from acacia wood. It is to be square, 7-1 high.
\v 2 They must make a projection that looks like a horn on each of the top corners. The projections must be carved from the same block of wood as the altar. Tell them to cover the whole altar with gold.
\v 3 They must make pans in which to put the greasy ashes from the animal sacrifices. Also they must make shovels for cleaning out the ashes, basins and forks for turning the meat as it cooks, and buckets for carrying hot coals. All of these things must be made from bronze.
\v 4 Also tell them to make a bronze grating to hold the wood and burning coals. They must fasten to each of the corners of the altar a bronze ring for carrying the altar.
\v 5 They must put the grating under the rim that is around the altar. They must make it so that it is inside the altar, halfway down.
\v 6 For carrying the altar, they must make poles from acacia wood and cover them with bronze.
\v 7 They must put the poles through the rings on each side of the altar. The poles are for carrying the altar.
\v 8 The altar will be like a box, made from boards of acacia wood. They must make it according to these instructions that I am giving you here on this mountain."
\s1 Instructions for the courtyard
\p
\v 9 "Around the Sacred Tent there is to be a courtyard. To form the courtyard, tell them to make curtains of fine linen. On the south side, the curtain is to be 50 yards long.
\v 10 To support the curtain, tell them to make twenty bronze posts, and one bronze base for each post. To fasten the curtains to the posts, they must make silver hooks, and metal rods covered with silver to fasten the curtains to the hooks.
\v 11 They must make the same kind of curtains for the north side of the courtyard.
\v 12 On the west side of the courtyard they must make a curtain 25 yards long. The curtains are to be supported by ten posts, with a base under each post.
\v 13 On the east side, where the entrance is, the courtyard must also be 25 yards wide.
\v 14-15 Tell them to make a curtain 22-1 wide for each side of the entrance to the courtyard.
\v 16 They must make a curtain 30 ft. four posts, each one with a base under it.
\v 17 All the posts around the courtyard must be connected with metal rods covered with silver. The clasps must be made of silver, and the bases must be made of bronze.
\v 18 The whole courtyard, from the east entrance to the west end, must be 50 yards high. All the curtains must be made of fine linen, and all the bases under the posts must be made of bronze.
\v 19 All the things that are not made of gold that are to be used inside the Sacred Tent and in the courtyard, and all the tent pegs to support the Sacred Tent and the curtains, must be made of bronze.
\p
\v 20 Command the Israelite people that they must bring to you the best kind of olive oil to burn in the lamps. They must bring this oil to you continually, in order that the lamps can burn continually.
\v 21 They must put the lampstand outside of the curtain which is in front of the sacred chest which contains the stone slabs on which I have written my commandments. Aaron must take care of the lamps. After he dies, his descendants must do this work. The lamps are to burn every night, from evening until morning. The Israelite people must obey this regulation throughout all future generations."
