\c 28
\s1 Instructions for the priests' clothing
\p
\v 1 "Summon your older brother Aaron and his sons—Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. Set them apart from the rest of the Israelite people, in order that they can serve me by being priests.
\v 2 Tell the people to make beautiful clothes for Aaron, clothes that are suitable for one who has this dignified and sacred work.
\v 3 Talk to all the skilled workmen, those to whom I have given special ability. Tell them to make clothes for Aaron, for him to wear when he is set apart to become a priest to serve me.
\v 4 These are the clothes that they are to make: A sacred pouch for Aaron to wear over his breast, a sacred apron, a robe, an embroidered tunic, and a sash, Or: waistband. These are the clothes that your older brother Aaron and his sons must wear as they serve me by doing the work that priests do.
\v 5 The skilled workmen must use fine linen and blue, purple, and red yarn to make these clothes."
\s1 Instructions for the sacred apron
\p
\v 6 "The skilled workmen must make the sacred apron from fine linen, and skillfully embroider it with blue, purple, and red yarn.
\v 7 It must have two shoulder straps, to join the front part to the back part.
\v 8 A carefully-woven belt, which must be made from the same materials as the sacred apron, must be sewn onto the sacred apron.
\v 9 A skilled workman must take two expensive onyx stones and engrave on them the names of the twelve sons of Jacob.
\v 10 He must engrave the names in the order in which Jacob's sons were born. He must engrave six names on one stone, and the other six names on the other stone.
\v 11 A gem-cutter should engrave these names on the stones. Then he should enclose the stones in settings.
\v 12 Then he should fasten the stones onto the shoulder straps of the sacred apron, to represent the twelve Israelite tribes. In that way, Aaron will carry the names of the tribes on his shoulders in order that I, Yahweh, will never forget my people .
\v 13 The settings for the stones must be made from gold.
\v 14 Tell them to make two tiny chains that are braided like cords, and fasten the chains to the settings."
\s1 Instructions for the sacred pouch
\p
\v 15 "Tell the skilled workman to make a sacred pouch for Aaron to wear over his chest. He will use the things he puts into the pouch to determine my answers to the questions he asks. It must be made of the same materials as the sacred apron, and embroidered in the same way.
\v 16 It is to be square, and the material must be folded double, so that it is 9 in. on each side.
\v 17 The skilled workman must fasten four rows of valuable stones onto the pouch. In the first row, he must put a red ruby, a yellow topaz, and a red garnet.
\v 18 In the second row, he must put a green emerald, a blue sapphire, and a clear diamond.
\v 19 In the third row he must put a red jacinth, a white agate, and a purple amethyst.
\v 20 In the fourth row, he must put a yellow beryl, a red carnelian, and a green jasper.
\v 21 A gem-cutter should engrave on each of these twelve stones the name of one of the sons of Jacob. These names will represent the twelve Israelite tribes.
\v 22 The two chains that are made from pure gold and braided like cords are for attaching the sacred pouch to the sacred apron.
\v 23 The workman must make two gold rings, and attach them to the upper corners of the sacred pouch.
\v 24 He must make two gold cords, and fasten one end of each cord to one of the rings.
\v 25 He must fasten the other end of each cord to the two settings that enclose the stones. In that way, the sacred pouch will be attached to the shoulder straps of the sacred apron.
\v 26 Then he must make two more gold rings, and attach them to the lower corners of the sacred pouch, on the inside edges, next to the sacred apron.
\v 27 He must make two more gold rings, and attach them to the lower part of the front of the shoulder straps, near to where the shoulder straps are joined to the sacred apron, just above the carefully-woven sash.
\v 28 The skilled workman must tie the rings on the sacred pouch to the rings on the sacred apron with a blue cord, so that the sacred pouch is above the sash and does not come loose from the sacred apron.
\v 29 In that way, Aaron will have the names of the twelve Israelite tribes in the sacred pouch close to his chest.
\v 30 Put into the sacred pouch the two things that the priest will use to determine my answers to the questions he asks. In that way, they will be close to his chest when he enters the Holy place to talk to me. He will use them to determine what is my will for the Israelite people."
\s1 Instructions for other clothes for the priests
\p
\v 31 "Tell them to use only blue cloth to make the robe that is to be worn underneath the priest's sacred apron.
\v 32 It is to have an opening through which the priest can put his head. They must sew a border around this opening, to keep the material from tearing.
\v 33 At the lower edge on the robe, they must fasten decorations that look like pomegranate fruit. They must be woven from blue, purple, and red yarn.
\v 34 Between each of these decorations, they must fasten a tiny gold bell.
\v 35 When Aaron enters the Holy Place in the Sacred Tent to do his work as a priest and when he leaves the Sacred Tent, the bells will ring as he walks. As a result, he will not die because of disobeying my instructions.
\p
\v 36 Tell them to make a tiny ornament of pure gold, and tell a skilled workman to engrave on it the words, 'Dedicated to Yahweh.'
\v 37 They should fasten this ornament to the front of the turban by a blue cord.
\v 38 Aaron must always wear this on his forehead. In that way, Aaron himself will show that he accepts the guilt if the Israelite people offer their sacrifices to me in a way that is not correct, and I, Yahweh, will accept their sacrifices.
\p
\v 39 Tell them to weave the long-sleeved tunic, and embroider designs on it.
\p
\v 40 Tell them to make beautiful long-sleeved tunics, sashes, waistbands, and caps for Aaron's sons. Make ones that will be suitable for those who have this dignified work.
\v 41 Put these clothes on your older brother Aaron and on his sons. Then set them apart for this work by anointing them with olive oil, in order that they may serve me by being priests.
\v 42 Also tell them to make linen undershorts for them. The undershorts should extend from their waists to their thighs, in order that no one can see their private parts.
\v 43 Aaron and his sons must always wear those undershorts when they enter the Sacred Tent or when they come near to the altar to offer sacrifices in the Holy Place. If they do not obey this ritual, I will cause them to die. Aaron and all his male descendants must obey this rule forever."
