\c 30
\s1 Instructions for the incense altar
\p
\v 1 "Tell the skilled workers to make an altar from acacia wood, for burning incense.
\v 2 It is to be square, 18 in. high. Tell them to make a projection that looks like a horn on each of the top corners. The projections must be carved from the same block of wood that the altar is made from.
\v 3 They must cover the top and the four sides, including the projections, with pure gold. Put a gold border around the altar, near the top.
\v 4 They must make two gold rings for carrying the altar. They must attach them to the altar below the border, one on each side of the altar. These rings are for the poles for carrying the altar.
\v 5 Tell them to make these two poles from acacia wood and cover them with gold.
\v 6 They must put this altar outside the curtain that hangs in front of the sacred chest and its lid. That is the place where I will talk with you.
\v 7 Aaron must burn sweet-smelling incense on this altar. He must burn some every morning when he takes care of the lamps,
\v 8 and he must burn some in the evening when he lights the lamps. The incense must be burned continually, throughout all future generations.
\v 9 The priests must not burn on the altar any incense that I have not told you to burn, or burn any animal on it, or any grain offering for me, or pour any wine on it as an offering.
\v 10 One time every year Aaron must perform the ritual for making this altar pure. He must do it by putting on its four projections some of the blood from the animal that was sacrificed to cover people's sins. This ritual is to be done by Aaron and his descendants throughout all future generations. This altar must be completely dedicated to me, Yahweh."
\s1 Instructions for the money to take care of the Sacred Tent
\p
\v 11 Yahweh also said to Moses,
\v 12 "When your leaders take a census of the Israelite people, each man who is counted must pay to me a price to save his life. They must do this in order that no disaster will happen to them while the people are being counted.
\v 13 Every man who is counted must pay to me 0.2 ounces of silver. They must use the official standard when they weigh the silver.
\v 14 All the men who are at least twenty years old must pay this amount to me when the people are counted.
\v 15 Rich men must not pay more than this amount, and poor men must not pay less than this amount, when they pay this money to save their lives.
\v 16 Your leaders must collect this money from the Israelite people and give it to those who will take care of the Sacred Tent. This money is the payment for their lives, to enable me not to forget them."
\s1 Instructions for the washbasin
\p
\v 17 Yahweh also said to Moses,
\v 18 "Tell the skilled workers to make a bronze washbasin and a bronze base for it. They must put it between the Sacred Tent and the altar, and fill it with water.
\v 19 Aaron and his sons must ritually wash their hands and their feet with this water
\v 20 before they enter the Sacred Tent and before they come to the altar to sacrifice offerings that will be burned on it. If they do that, they will not die because of disobeying my instructions.
\v 21 They must wash their hands and their feet, in order that they will not die. They and the males descended from them must obey this ritual throughout all generations."
\s1 Instructions for the oil for anointing
\p
\v 22 Yahweh also said to Moses,
\v 23 "Tell the people to collect some of the finest spices— 12 pounds of a sweet-smelling cane, Or: reed,
\v 24 and 12 pounds of olive oil
\v 25 to make sacred oil for anointing.
\v 26 Use this oil for anointing the Sacred Tent, the sacred chest,
\v 27 the table and all the things that are used with it, the lampstand and all the things that are used to take care of it, the altar for burning incense,
\v 28 and the altar for offering sacrifices that will be burned, along with its bases and all the things that are used with it.
\v 29 Dedicate them by anointing them, in order that they will be completely holy. Anyone or anything that touches the altar that is not allowed to do so will become taboo.
\v 30 And anoint Aaron and his sons. By doing that, you will dedicate them to serve me by being priests.
\v 31 And tell the Israelite people, 'This oil will be my sacred oil that must be used throughout all future generations.
\v 32 You must not pour it on the bodies of people who are not priests, and you must not make other oil to be like it by mixing those same things. This oil is sacred, and you must consider it to be sacred.'
\v 33 I will consider that anyone who makes ointment like this for any other purpose, and anyone who puts any of this ointment on someone who is not a priest, no longer belongs to my people."
\p
\v 34 Yahweh also said to Moses, "Tell the people to take equal parts of several sweet spices—stacte, onycha, galbanum, and pure frankincense—
\v 35 and tell an expert perfumer to mix them together to make some perfume. Add some salt to keep it pure and make it holy.
\v 36 Beat some of it into a fine powder. Then take some of it into the Sacred Tent and sprinkle it in front of the sacred chest. You must all consider this incense to be very holy.
\v 37 The people must not mix the same spices to make incense for themselves. This incense must be completely dedicated to me, Yahweh.
\v 38 I will consider that anyone who makes incense like this to use it for perfume no longer belongs to my people."
