\c 35
\s1 Regulations for the days of rest
\p
\v 1 Moses gathered all the Israelite people together and said to them, "This is what Yahweh has commanded you to do:
\v 2 Each week you may work for six days, but on the seventh day, you must rest. It is a sacred day, dedicated to me, Yahweh. Anyone who does any work on the seventh day must be executed.
\v 3 Do not even light a fire in your homes on rest days."
\s1 Gifts for constructing the Sacred Tent
\p
\v 4 Moses also said to all the Israelite people, "This is also what Yahweh has commanded:
\v 5 Make offerings to Yahweh. Everyone who wants to should bring to Yahweh an offering. These are the things that they may offer: Gold, silver, bronze,
\v 6 fine white linen, blue, purple or red cloth, cloth made from goats' hair,
\v 7 rams' skins that are tanned, fine leather made from goatskins, wood from acacia trees,
\v 8 oil for the lamps, spices to put in the olive oil for anointing and in the sweet-smelling incense,
\v 9 valuable onyx stones or other valuable stones to fasten onto the priest's sacred apron and put on his sacred chest pouch.
\p
\v 10 All the skilled workers among you should come and make all the things that Yahweh has commanded:
\v 11 The Sacred Tent and its covering, its fasteners and its frames, its crossbars, its posts, its bases,
\v 12 the sacred chest with its poles and its lid, the curtain that will separate the Holy Place from the Very Holy Place,
\v 13 the table with the poles for carrying it and all the things that will be used with the table, the sacred bread that will be offered to God,
\v 14 the lampstand for the lamps with all the things that will be used to take care of them, the oil for the lamps,
\v 15 the altar for burning incense and the poles for carrying that altar, the oil for anointing and the sweet-smelling incense, the curtain for the entrance of the Sacred Tent,
\v 16 the altar for offering sacrifices that will be completely burned and its bronze grating, the poles for carrying that altar and all the things that will be used with it, the washbasin and its base,
\v 17 the curtains to surround the courtyard and the posts and bases for the posts to support the curtains, the curtain for the entrance to the courtyard,
\v 18 the pegs and ropes for the Sacred Tent,
\v 19 and the beautiful clothes that Aaron and his sons are to wear when they do their work in the Holy Place."
\p
\v 20 Then all the Israelite people returned to their tents.
\v 21 Everyone who wanted to brought an offering to Yahweh. They brought some of the things that would be used to make the Sacred Tent and all the other items that would be used in the rituals, and the materials to make the sacred clothes for the priests.
\v 22 All the men and women who wanted to brought gold ornaments, earrings, rings, necklaces, and many other kinds of things made of gold, and they dedicated them to Yahweh.
\v 23 And many  or leather made from goatskins brought some of these things.
\v 24 All those who had silver or bronze brought them as offerings to Yahweh. All those who had some acacia wood that could be used for any of the work brought it.
\v 25 All the women who were skilled to make cloth brought fine linen thread and blue, purple, or red yarn.
\v 26 And all the women who wanted to made thread from goats' hair.
\v 27 All the leaders brought valuable onyx stones and other valuable stones to be fastened to Aaron's sacred apron and his sacred chest pouch.
\v 28 They also brought spices to put in the sweet-smelling incense, and they brought olive oil for the lamps and for the oil for anointing and for putting in the sweet-smelling incense.
\v 29 All the Israelite men and women who wanted to brought these things to offer them to Yahweh, for doing the work that he had commanded Moses to do.
\s1 Moses' instructions regarding Bezalel and Oholiab
\p
\v 30 Moses said to the Israelite people, "Listen carefully. Yahweh has chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, from the tribe of Judah.
\v 31 Yahweh has enabled his Spirit to completely control Bezalel and has given him ability and enabled him to know how to do very skilled work.
\v 32 He can engrave skillful designs in gold, silver, and bronze.
\v 33 He can cut jewels and enclose them in tiny gold frames. He can carve things from wood and do other skilled work.
\v 34 Yahweh has also given to him and to Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan the ability to teach their skills to others.
\v 35 He has given to them the ability to do all kinds of work that is done by craftsmen—those who create artistic things, those who make fine white linen, those who embroider designs using blue, purple, or red yarn kinds of skillful work.
