\c 36
\p
\v 1 Bezalel and Oholiab, and all the other men to whom Yahweh has given ability and enabled them to understand how to do all the work to make the Sacred Tent, must make everything just as Yahweh has commanded."
\p
\v 2 So Moses summoned Bezalel and Oholiab and all the other skilled men to whom Yahweh had given special ability and who wanted to do some of the work.
\v 3 Moses gave them all the things that the people had brought as offerings to Yahweh for making the Sacred Tent. But the people continued bringing more things every morning.
\v 4 As a result, the skilled men who were doing various things to make the Sacred Tent came to Moses
\v 5 and said, "The people are bringing more than we need to do the work that Yahweh has commanded us!"
\v 6 So Moses gave them a message that was proclaimed throughout the camp, saying "No one should bring anything more as an offering to make the Sacred Tent!" When the people heard that, they did not bring anything more.
\v 7 What they had already brought was enough to do all the work. In fact, it was more than was needed!
\s1 They made the curtains and coverings for the Sacred Tent
\p
\v 8 All the most skilled men among the workmen made the Sacred Tent. They made it from ten strips of fine linen, and carefully embroidered it using blue, purple, and red yarn to make figures that resembled the winged creatures.
\v 9 Each strip was fourteen yards long and two yards, Or: meters wide.
\v 10 They sewed five strips together to make one set, and they sewed the other five strips together to make the other set.
\v 11 For each set, they made loops of blue cloth and fastened them on the outer edge of the strip, at the end of each set.
\v 12 They put fifty loops on the edge of the first set, and fifty loops on the edge of the second set.
\v 13 They made fifty gold clasps, to fasten both of the sets together. In that way, the inside of the Sacred Tent was as though it was one piece.
\v 14 They made a cover for the Sacred Tent from eleven pieces of cloth made from goats' hair.
\v 15 Each piece of cloth was fifteen yards long and two yards, Or: meters wide.
\v 16 They sewed five of these pieces of cloth together to make one set, and they sewed the other six pieces of cloth together to make another set.
\v 17 They made one hundred loops of blue cloth. They fastened fifty of them to the outer edge of the one set and they fastened fifty to the outer edge of the other set.
\v 18 They made fifty bronze clasps and joined the two sets together with them. In that way it formed one cover.
\v 19 They made two more covers for the Sacred Tent. They made one from rams' skins that had been tanned, and they made the top cover from goatskin leather.
\v 20 They made forty-eight frames from acacia wood and set them up to support the covers for the Sacred Tent.
\v 21 Each frame was 15 ft. wide.
\v 22 They made two projections at the bottom of each frame. These were for fastening the frames to the bases underneath them. Each frame had these projections.
\v 23 The skilled workmen made twenty frames for the south side of the Sacred Tent.
\v 24 They made forty silver bases to go underneath them. Two bases went under each frame. The projections on each frame fit into these bases.
\v 25 Similarly, they made twenty frames for the north side of the Sacred Tent.
\v 26 They made forty silver bases for them also, with two bases for under each frame.
\v 27 For the rear of the Sacred Tent, on the west side, they made six frames.
\v 28 They also made two extra frames, one for each corner of the rear of the Sacred Tent, to provide extra support.
\v 29 The two corner frames were separated at the bottom but joined at the top . At the top of each of the two corner frames they fastened a gold ring for holding the crossbar.
\v 30 In that way, for the rear of the Sacred Tent there were eight frames, and there were sixteen bases, two bases under each frame.
\v 31 The workmen made fifteen crossbars from acacia wood.
\v 32 Five of them were for the frames on the north side of the Sacred Tent, five for the south side, and five for the frames at the rear of the Sacred Tent, the west side.
\v 33 The crossbars on the north, south, and west sides of the Sacred Tent were fastened to the middle of the frames. The two long crossbars extended from one end of the Sacred Tent to the other, and the crossbar on the west side extended from one side of the Sacred Tent to the other.
\v 34 The workmen covered the frames with gold and fastened gold rings to the poles. The crossbars were put into the rings. The crossbars were also covered with gold.
\p
\v 35 They made a curtain from fine white linen. Skilled craftsman embroidered it with blue, purple, and red yarn, making designs to represent the winged creatures.
\v 36 They suspended the curtain from four posts that were made from acacia wood and covered with gold. They set each post in a silver base.
\v 37 They made a curtain to cover the entrance of the Sacred Tent. They made it from fine linen, and a skilled weaver embroidered it with blue, purple, and red yarn.
\v 38 To support this curtain, they also made five posts from acacia wood and fastened gold clasps to them. They completely covered the posts with gold. They also made a bronze base for each of those posts.
