\c 1
\p
\v 1 I am Jude. I serve Jesus Christ like a voluntary slave .
\v 2 I pray that you will continue to experience very much God acting mercifully toward you, causing you to have inner peace, and loving you.
\s Jude 3-4
\sr Proclaim the truth that we believe and strongly defend it against those who oppose it.
\p
\v 3 You whom I love, I was very eager.
\v 4 Some people falsely teach that because God kindly does for us what we do not deserve, it does not matter like crawling snakes into your congregations and oppose the truth about Christ, so you must resist, Or: oppose them.
\s Jude 5-8
\sr How God destroyed three groups illustrates that he will destroy these ungodly people in your midst.
\p
\v 5 Although you previously knew all these things, there are certain things about which I desire to remind you. Do not forget that although the Lord rescued his people from Egypt country, he later destroyed most of those same people, ones who did not believe in him.
\v 6 And there were many angels to whom God assigned positions of authority in heaven. But they did not continue to rule with authority in those positions. Instead, they abandoned the place that God gave them to live in heaven. So God has put those angels in chains forever in the darkness in hell. They will stay there until the great day when God will judge and punish them.
\v 7 Similarly, the people who lived  in Sodom and Gomorrah cities and the nearby cities committed sexual immorality. They sought all kinds of sexual relations that differ from what God permits. So God destroyed their cities. What happened to those people and those angels shows that God will punish people, such as the ones who teach false doctrine, in the eternal fire of hell.
\v 8 Similarly, these ungodly people in your midst also defile their own bodies by living immorally, because they claim God's glorious, Or: wonderful angels.
\s Jude 9-10
\sr Those teachers of false doctrine revile the spiritual beings that they do not understand. But God will destroy them.
\p
\v 9 When the devil Satan and accuse, Or: condemn him. Instead, he only said, "I desire that the Lord God will rebuke you!"
\v 10 But the ones in your midst who teach false doctrine revile.
\s Jude 11-13
\sr Because the teachers of false doctrine do wicked things, God will condemn them to hell. They are dangerous, useless, spiritually dead, restless, shameless, and unreliable.
\p
\v 11 God will do terrible things to those who teach false doctrine! They conduct their lives wickedly like Cain, who murdered his brother because he was jealous doing wrong things like Balaam, who tried to induce God's people to sin in order to get the money that was offered to him. They will perish like Korah, who rebelled against the authority that God gave to Moses►.
\v 12 Those teachers of false doctrine are as dangerous to you as  uprooted and as a result are unable to produce any fruit.
\v 13 They are restless  to show us the way when we travel. God has reserved intense darkness for them forever in hell.
\s Jude 14-16
\sr Enoch prophesied that the Lord will condemn people like the wicked teachers of false doctrine. They grumble, are discontent, and are arrogant flatterers.
\p
\v 14 Enoch, the sixth person in the line of people who descended from Adam, prophesied this about those teachers of false doctrine: "Listen carefully to this: The Lord will certainly come with a countless number of his holy angels in order
\v 15 to judge everyone, and to punish all wicked and ungodly people, and for all the harsh things that ungodly sinful people have spoken against him."
\v 16 Those teachers of false doctrine grumble about the things that God does. They complain about what happens to them. They do the sinful things that theirbodies desire. They talk boastfully. They flatter people, only in order to get those people to give them the things that they want.
\s Jude 17-19
\sr The apostles predicted that wicked people like the teachers of false doctrine would come. They divide believers, are self-directed, and devoid of God's Spirit.
\p
\v 17 But you people whom I love need to remember the things that were predicted by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ .
\v 18 They told you, "In the final period of time in which we are now living there will be people who will laugh at the truths that God has revealed. They will do the ungodly things that their bodies desire."
\v 19 That describes the teachers of false doctrinewell, because they are the ones who cause believers to divide among themselves. They do what their own minds tell them to do. The Spirit of God does not live within them.
\s Jude 20-21
\sr Believe the truth more firmly, pray by the power of the Spirit, and keep expecting God's mercy.
\p
\v 20 But you people whom I love, establish yourselves firmly in the very sacred truths that you believe. Pray by letting the Holy Spirit enable, Or: empower you.
\v 21 Keep conducting your lives in a way that is appropriate for those whom God loves. Keep constantly expecting that our Lord Jesus Christ will act mercifully toward you. Keep expecting that until the time when we begin living eternally with him.
\s Jude 22-23
\sr Mercifully help those who are not certain what to believe, save those who are in danger of being influenced by the teachers of false doctrine, and pity those completely convinced by them.
\p
\v 22 Mercifully help those who are not certain what teaching they should believe.
\v 23 Rescue others from the influence of those who teach what is false .
\s Jude 24-25
\sr God, who is able to keep you from being condemned for your sin and to present you guiltless before him, was great and ruled before time began, is still like that, and will remain so forever.
\p
\v 24 God is able to keep you from ceasing to trust in him , and you will be rejoicing greatly.
\v 25 He is the only true God. He has saved us as a result of what Jesus Christ our Lord did for us. God was glorious and great and mighty and he ruled with great authority before time began. He is still like that, and he will remain like that forever! Amen!
