===== The Narrator =====

This module answers the question: //What does the Narrator do?//\\
==  ==

The narrator is the voice of the recording. The responsibility of the narrator is to clearly communicate the words of the text (or oral translation). The narrator must not only say the correct words, but the words must also be said the right way. In many languages, words or phrases said in the wrong way (mispronounced, incorrect tone, incorrect emphasis on a syllable) can change the meaning of the message communicated to the listener.

Anyone involved in a recording project should spend a few moments in the position of narrator to gain an appreciate and understanding of how challenging this role is. Few people are able to narrate even short passages on the first try without making errors. A good narrator will build upon any natural skill they have and train their ability to read accurately with making few mistakes (fixing mistakes is where a lot of time can be consumed on a project).

A narrator should have a clear voice that is comfortable to listen to for extended periods. He or she must be a native speaker of the language they are recording and must not have lost their pure accent due to living away from communities where the language is spoken daily.

Consistency in the sound of the narrator's voice is important not only for the listeners but also for the recording and editing processes. A narrator must read using their natural voice, not attempting to sound like someone else.

Can the narrator be old, young, man or woman? The answer is that cultural values should be respected and taken into consideration when selecting the right narrator(s) for a project. Pastors or other ministry leaders in the people group would have the best understanding of the cultural values and help identify the right kind of person to communicate Biblical content in their culture.

Avoid having a popular person serve as narrator simply because of their popularity or prestige. Being a popular figure in the community does not mean they have the right skills to be a narrator. A good way to identify the best narrator is to record samples of several different candidates. Assign a number to each sample file. Have local leaders listen to each file and identify the file number that has the narrator that is best to listen to. This helps identify the best narrator based on skill and quality of voice, not popularity or prestige.    

A narrator must also consider the varying education levels and listening needs of a diverse audience. Therefore, it is best to narrate at a slow-to-mid level speed. Avoid reading too fast. 

As mentioned above, the narrator must be a native speaker of the language. To define that more, they must be familiar with the correct pronunciation and meaning of the word in the text. He or she must be able to give the correct intonations and sound consistent, confident and natural, not speaking in a manner that conveys doubt, uncertainty or guessing. 

The narrator must also obey punctuation marks correctly in the text. Failure to do so can cause the listeners to understand the meaning of the message differently than the written text was carefully punctuated to communicate.

Another valuable skill of a narrator is the learned ability to minimize the negative impacts of their breathing during narration. Of course the narrator must breathe and be relaxed and comfortable during the recording process. But narrator can sharpen their skills at breathing in a quieter and more controlled manner. This decreases the amount of editing work for the recordist and will be more comfortable for listeners. Our opinion is that the soft sound of the narrator breathing between phrases does sound natural and is not distracting. By contrast, loud breathing or apply heavy silencing effects during the editing phase creates a significant degree of distraction to the listener. Therefore, a good narrator can make a very positive impact on a recording by breathing skillfully. 

One way to help the narrator perform well is to record the text in small portions, rather than lengthy sections. This helps them with not only accurate reading, but also with good breathing technique.



