===== Assessing the Recording Space =====

This module answers the question: How do I assess a potential recording space?\\
===  ===

In most recording project scenarios occurring on a global scale, many in a field recording context, it is not feasible to expect that the recording space can be analyzed by acoustical experts using calibrated measurement tools and diagnostic software. Instead the recordist is going to need to rely on their ears and their eyes as their best tools to assess a recording space.

An easy way to give a potential recording space an initial assessment is to simply say a few phrases out loud, simulating a narrator, and listen to how your voice sounds? Does it sound clear and natural? Do you notice an echo? Does it sound like your voice has an unusual characteristic? Does it sound higher in pitch? Repeat this test in several locations in the room. Do you find different results depending on where you stand or which direction you face? Is there a specific location and direction that sounds the clearest and most natural? These are all things to tune your ears to listen for.

But is listening with our ears to the live sound of a voice enough to adequately assess the recording space? When recording, a microphone hears, with great sensitivity, what is occurring acoustically in the recording environment and that information is recorded to a device such as a laptop. Therefore, what really matters is what the microphone is hearing. Assuming you are using a correctly designed mic as discussed in the Microphones module, it would be an excellent step to record a few test samples in the space to make sure there are not acoustic issues occurring that you did not detect during your initial assessment. The best way to assess the sound is with a quality set of headphones. Quality headphones will tell the truth about what the microphone is hearing, while lower quality built-in speakers on a computer will not give an accurate reference. 

How can we use our eyes to effectively assess the recording space? Even with just a small amount of training and experience, you can notice certain things that are acoustical challenges ready to happen. Bare cement walls and ceilings, tile floors, large glass windows, metal doors – these are physical materials that have a reputation for reflecting sound waves at a problematic level. 

But are there other things that can be detected visually besides the construction materials of the room? What about activities that typically occur in an adjacent room, on the floor above, or outdoors? Is it possible that at certain times of the day the recording environment could be drastically different than the exact time that you are assessing it? For example, an evening or weekend visit to assess a recording space may not give an accurate representation of what the ambient noise level is like during regular working hours.



