===== The Recordist =====

This module answers the question: //What does the Recordist do?//\\
==  ==

The recordist has a diverse range of responsibilities. The recordist must gain the necessary process, technical and interpersonal skills for creating media in a team setting, leading the recording process with wisdom, operating and maintaining the equipment, ensuring excellence in recording and editing steps, and making sure recording standards are being followed and met, including backing up audio data. In addition, the recordist often is the greatest servant and encourager to the rest of the team, sensing their needs and helping them succeed in their roles. 

The recordist must also make, or suggest many decisions in real-time related to recording and editing that impact the quality of the recording and the efficiency of the project. The view of unfoldingWord is that these two things, quality and efficiency, are not warring opposites as they are often believed to be. Instead, making proactive decisions toward quality will naturally result in efficiency.

In many ways, the recordist has a significant influence on the morale and attitude of the team, as well as the overall experience of the recording project. A happy, pleasant, patient, humble recordist is a great blessing to the rest of the team members, each of them also having challenging responsibilities. Remember most narrators and checkers will have less experience with the recording process and may not be confident in the beginning. Your encouragement and gentle guiding will mean a lot. A team that is happy and feeling appreciated and encouraged will produce an excellent project.

One thing a recordist can do to really strengthen the team is to make sure that he/she does not work in a way that places a technology barrier between themselves and the rest of the team. Too often in recording settings, viewing sound waves on the screen is thought to be only for the recordist. Instead, we suggest that in many contexts a team that can together see, understand and communicate the basics of what is happening with the sound waves on the computer screen is going to be a team that works more effectively together. 

The recordist makes sure the equipment is of the right design, sets up the equipment properly and ensures that all team members, including themselves, are using good technique.

The recordist also must evaluate recording environment before and during the recording process, providing solutions for any acoustical challenges that are present.

The recordist should also have the courage, and courtesy, to address recording problems right away in a kind manner. There is no benefit to allow bad recording to happen that will need to be re-done later. It is much better to stop for a moment, fix the problem, and then record with quality.

Not always, but many times the recordist will be the one that must pay close attention to the well-being of the team and learn to recognize their limits. For example, the recordist may need to suggest it is time for a short tea break when it is clear that the narrator is feeling fatigued or everyone has just struggled through a challenging section of recording. A few minutes spent recharging physically and relationally will keep the overall productivity stronger.

Prayer is something that should be part of the project and life of the team everyday. Pressing the red record button as quickly as possible each morning is not more urgent that spending a few moments together with the Lord as a team.

Lastly, the recordist, especially those early in their learning, should take a moment to send a recorded sample via email or Dropbox to unfoldingWord or to a mentor for constructive feedback. This is an excellent way to learn in real-life scenarios, improve the excellence of the recording and potentially save the entire team from wasting a lot of time recording badly. Obviously, getting feedback at the beginning of the project is much more beneficial that waiting until later in the project.



