===== Basic Acoustic Principles =====

This module answers the question: What are basic acoustic principles?\\
=== ===

One of the valuable steps towards recording with excellence is understanding basic concepts about the behavior of sound waves in a recording environment. A recordist with even basic level knowledge can make profound improvements in quality and clarity of the narration often with very little investment of time, energy or material cost.

The first principle to know about acoustics is that, even though sound waves are invisible, their behavior is not unpredictable. In fact, their behavior can be easily explained, measured and calculated with precision using mathematic formulas. This is not something the average recordist will be interested or find themselves needing to calculate so we will not devote space toward in this module. It is simply enough for most recordists to understand that there is an objective reason why sound sounds the way it does in a recording space and with minimal knowledge they can be confident in knowing how to improve it.

The second principle to know about acoustics is that, in truth, when we take steps to improve the sound quality we are actually applying subtractive measures, not additive. In other words, we are in truth not making it sound better by adding something good. Instead we are making it sound better by decreasing ingredients that sound bad, thus allowing the good ingredients to come to the forefront.

What we are really solving, or overcoming, by the subtractive improvement technique is to bring a more natural balance back to the sound that has been artificially impacted by recording environment. 

A third principle about acoustics is that sound waves contain energy and will stay active (producing  noise) until there is something that depletes their energy to the point being non-detectable for the human ear. Generally speaking, the acoustic challenges that need to be solved are caused by certain physical conditions causing particular sound frequencies to retain, or even amplify with too much energy, thus throwing off the desirable balance of frequencies. To a certain degree the dimensions of a recording space impact the energy level of frequencies. More profound, however is the impact of how reflective, deflective or absorbing materials are of the sound waves. 

Virtually every type of material provides some degree of absorption of sound, which is something that may not be obvious. What we really need to know is how well a material absorbs certain frequencies. For example, a glass window is good at absorbing very low bass frequencies, but it is very poor at absorbing midrange and high frequencies. Ina voice recording context, glass is not going to be a very useful treatment material because it does poorly at absorbing  frequencies that are problematic in voice recording. By contrast, a wool blanket, even a single layer of thickness, can provide an extremely beneficial degree of sound absorption of troublesome mid-range and high frequencies.

Remember how glass did not prove to be helpful in absorbing the main frequencies we need it to? Unfortunately glass, because of the way it is used in construction, typically amplifies problems because it acts as a large, hard reflective surface to bounce sound waves back and forth with another hard surface, such as a cement wall. Sounds waves reflecting off of hard surfaces is perhaps the predominate acoustical challenge faced. 

Deflection of sound waves is another technique to reduce reflections, yet it has less significant effect. Deflection is typically used more when trying to keep a controlled level of reflection. It is our opinion that in most cases, deflection will not be the best technique and absorption should be the primary technique used. But anything that can be done to absorb or scatter (deflect) sound waves will be advantageous.

The last principle to know about acoustics is that this is a challenge that must be tackled before you record, not after. There is a common belief, or hope, that there are software solutions that can fix acoustic issues in a recording. The reality is that somethings can be adjusted, but there are many prevalent acoustical issues that cannot be removed from a recording later, with any attempt to do so also having a degradation impact of the entire recording, including the good aspects that need to be preserved. The bottom line is that recordists need to solve acoustic issues on site before recording, not record now and hope there will be expensive software and expert engineers able to fix it later.



