===== Simple Acoustical Treatments =====

This module answers the question: //What are some simple acoustical treatments?//\\
===  ===

Fortunately, with a little ingenuity, easy acoustical treatment solutions can be possible using locally available materials. This is good news, since professionally manufactured acoustic foam is quite expensive and not easy to obtain in many parts of the world.

One of the first steps toward acoustic treatment is to utilize existing furnishings such as chairs, beds, rugs, curtains, tapestries, shelves of books and many other common items that may already be in the room or in the house or facility. In fact, you will probably notice the rooms that sound the best are often the ones with furniture absorbing and deflecting sound waves. It is our recommendation to use these furnishings to your advantage.

What kinds of things can be done to improve a decent room even further? Hanging blankets on the walls, placing a linen on the table that the narrator is using can significantly reduce echo reflections. Other ideas include positioning pillows near the microphone or a suitcase with towels or linens inside just beyond the microphone in order to immediately absorb sound.

A word of caution needs to be mentioned, however, against taking acoustical treatment to the extreme. If too much treatment is used, such as covering all surfaces with carpet or foam, the room will lack the natural vibrancy that a voice should have. The result is that the sound of the voice seems unnaturally dry, dull and flat. So use good judgment when approaching acoustical treatment. Be sure to address the problems before you record, but do not go so extreme that you create a new acoustical problem.

After we have made simple improvements that make the room sound better, it is time to make sure our work has been as effective as we believe it is. When recording, a microphone hears, with great sensitivity, what is occurring acoustically in the recording environment. Therefore, what really matters is what the microphone is hearing.

Assuming you are using a correctly designed mic as discussed in the Microphones module, it would be an excellent next step to record a few test samples and carefully listen with a set of quality headphones. Quality headphones will tell the truth about what the microphone is hearing and you can take further acoustical treatment steps if needed. 



