===== Skills Training =====

This module answers the question: //What is the skills training approach to audio?//\\
==  ==

Skills are perhaps the most valuable, yet underrated asset in any audio project. Gaining, sharpening and maintaining skills takes effort and time investment. However, for a recordist working toward excellence, there is great joy and appreciation for learning, strengthening and improving skills. In fact, a wise recordist not only enjoys learning, but sees it as an important, continual process.  

Some people assume that upgrading to more expensive, advanced-level equipment will be a fast and easy substitute for skills. In reality, advanced-level equipment is typically more challenging to use properly, especially for people that never gained basic skills in the first place. Also, expensive equipment typically means increased complexity in the recording setup, which works against the principles discussed in the Simplicity module.

Another frequent misconception is that “IT” or “Tech” skill sets are an automatic substitute for audio/media creation skill sets. Perhaps this idea comes from observation that technology is used? However, technology is used in most professions all across the world. For example, no one would consider a skilled IT person to be an automatic substitute for a doctor simply because the doctor uses technical equipment. The IT person could discern much about the operation of the equipment but would not automatically possess the necessary knowledge, intuition and techniques a doctor creatively and skillfully provides to meet the unique needs of each patient. Many technical-minded people do have creative art and relational skills, but it is important to understand that the skill sets are not the same. Audio recording is a creative process, not a mechanical or technical process. 

The approach that has strength for the dynamic, interpersonal creative process of audio recording is anchored in skills, not equipment. Skills live on when the equipment fails. Skills know what to do when troubleshooting is needed. Skills recognize when the equipment is working fine but the recording is not coming together properly. Skills know how to adapt to the best alternative solution. Skills are sensitive to the dynamics of the creative process, hour by hour. Skills find and build upon the unique strengths of each team member. No piece of equipment can do these things and a technical understanding of the mechanics is not sufficient. 

Because skills training is so important, much of the content of this open-source Audio Handbook is dedicated to skills training and essential audio principles. Our reliance must be on skills, not equipment.



