\c 3
\p
\v 1 Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? or need we, as do some, epistles of commendation to you or from you?
\v 2 You are our epistle, written in our hearts, known and read of all men;
\v 3 being made manifest that you are an epistle of Christ, ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the
living God; not in tables of stone, but in tables that are hearts of flesh.
\v 4 And such confidence have we through Christ to God-ward:
\v 5 not that we are sufficient of ourselves, to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God;
\v 6 who also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth,
but the spirit gives life.
\v 7 But if the ministration of death, written, and engraven on stones, came with glory, so that the children of
Israel could not look stedfastly upon the face of Moses for the glory of his face; which
glory was passing away:
\v 8 how shall not rather the ministration of the spirit be with glory?
\v 9 For if the ministration of condemnation has glory, much rather does the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory.
\v 10 For verily that which has been made glorious has not been made glorious in this respect, by reason of the glory that
surpasseth.
\v 11 For if that which passes away was with glory, much more that which remains
is in glory.
\p
\v 12 Having therefore such a hope, we use great boldness of speech,
\v 13 and are not as Moses, who put a veil upon his face, that the children of Israel should not look
stedfastly on the end of that which was passing away:
\v 14 but their minds were hardened: for until this very day at the reading of the old covenant the same veil remaineth, it not
being revealed to them that it is done away in Christ.
\v 15 But to this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies upon their heart.
\v 16 But whenever it shall turn to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
\v 17 Now the Lord is the Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is,
there is liberty.
\v 18 But we all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are transformed into the same image from
glory to glory, even as from the Lord the Spirit.