\c 5
\p
\v 1 For we know that if the earthly house of our tabernacle be dissolved, we have a building from God, a house not made with
hands, eternal, in the heavens.
\v 2 For verily in this we groan, longing to be clothed upon with our habitation which is from heaven:
\v 3 if so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked.
\v 4 For indeed we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened; not for that we would be unclothed, but that we would
be clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up of life.
\v 5 Now he that wrought us for this very thing is God, who gave to us the earnest of the Spirit.
\v 6 Being therefore always of good courage, and knowing that, while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord
\v 7 (for we walk by faith, not by sight);
\v 8 we are of good courage, I say, and are willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be at home with the Lord.
\v 9 Wherefore also we make it our aim, whether at home or absent, to be well-pleasing to him.
\v 10 For we must all be made manifest before the judgment-seat of Christ; that each one may receive the things
done in the body, according to what he has done, whether
it be good or bad.
\p
\v 11 Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest to God; and I hope that we are made
manifest also in your consciences.
\v 12 We are not again commending ourselves to you, but speak
as giving you occasion of glorying on our behalf, that you may have wherewith to answer them that glory in appearance, and
not in heart.
\v 13 For whether we are beside ourselves, it is to God; or whether we are of sober mind, it is to you.
\v 14 For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that one died for all, therefore all died;
\v 15 and he died for all, that they that live should no longer live to themselves, but to him who for their sakes died and
rose again.
\v 16 Wherefore we henceforth know no man after the flesh: even though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now we know
him so no more.
\v 17 Wherefore if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature: the old things are passed away; behold, they are
become new.
\v 18 But all things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and gave to us the ministry of reconciliation;
\v 19 to wit, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not reckoning to them their trespasses, and having
committed to us the word of reconciliation.
\p
\v 20 We are ambassadors therefore on behalf of Christ, as though God were entreating by us: we beseech
you on behalf of Christ, be you reconciled to God.
\v 21 Him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness of God in him.