\c 7
\nb
\v 1 Having therefore these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting
holiness in the fear of God.
\p
\v 2 Open your hearts to us: we wronged no man, we corrupted no man, we took advantage of no man.
\v 3 I say it not to condemn you: for I have said before, that you are in our hearts to die together and live
together.
\v 4 Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my glorying on your behalf: I am filled with comfort, I overflow with
joy in all our affliction.
\p
\v 5 For even when we were come into Macedonia our flesh had no relief, but
we were afflicted on every side; without were fightings, within
were fears.
\v 6 Nevertheless he that comforteth the lowly, even God, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
\v 7 and not by his coming only, but also by the comfort wherewith he was comforted in you, while he told us your longing, your
mourning, your zeal for me; so that I rejoiced yet more.
\v 8 For though I made you sorry with my epistle, I do not regret it: though I did regret
it (for I see that that epistle made you sorry, though but for a season),
\v 9 I now rejoice, not that you were made sorry, but that you were made sorry to repentance; for you were made sorry after a
godly sort, that you might suffer loss by us in nothing.
\v 10 For godly sorrow works repentance to salvation, a repentance
which brings no regret: but the sorrow of the world works death.
\v 11 For behold, this selfsame thing, that you were made sorry after a godly sort, what earnest care it wrought in you, youa
what clearing of yourselves, yes what indignation, yes what fear, yes what longing, yes what zeal, yes what avenging! In
everything you approved yourselves to be pure in the matter.
\v 12 So although I wrote to you, I wrote not for his cause that did the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered the
wrong, but that your earnest care for us might be made manifest to you in the sight of God.
\v 13 Therefore we have been comforted: and in our comfort we joyed the more exceedingly for the joy of Titus, because his
spirit has been refreshed by you all.
\v 14 For if in anything I have gloried to him on your behalf, I was not put to shame; but as we spoke all things to you in
truth, so our glorying also which I made before Titus was found to be truth.
\v 15 And his affection is more abundantly toward you, while he remembers the obedience of you all, how with fear and
trembling you received him.
\v 16 I rejoice that in everything I am of good courage concerning you.