\c 3
\nb
\v 1 And he said to me, Son of man, eat that which you findest; eat this roll, and go, speak to the house of Israel.
\v 2 So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat the roll.
\v 3 And he said to me, Son of man, cause your belly to eat, and fill your bowels with this roll that I give thee. Then did I
eat it; and it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness.
\p
\v 4 And he said to me, Son of man, go, get you to the house of Israel, and speak with my words to them.
\v 5 For you are not sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel;
\v 6 not to many peoples of a strange speech and of a hard language, whose words you can not understand. Surely, if I sent
you to them, they would listen to you.
\v 7 But the house of Israel will not listen to thee; for they will not listen to me: for all the house of Israel are of
hard forehead and of a stiff heart.
\v 8 Behold, I have made your face hard against their faces, and your forehead hard against their foreheads.
\v 9 As an adamant harder than flint have I made your forehead: fear them not, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they
are a rebellious house.
\v 10 Moreover he said to me, Son of man, all my words that I shall speak to you receive in your heart, and hear with your
ears.
\v 11 And go, get you to them of the captivity, to the children of your people, and speak to them, and tell them, Thus
says the Lord Jehovah; whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear.
\p
\v 12 Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great rushing,
saying, Blessed be the glory of Jehovah from his place.
\v 13 And I heard the noise of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the noise of the
wheels beside them, even the noise of a great rushing.
\v 14 So the Spirit lifted me up, and took me away; and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; and the hand of Jehovah
was strong upon me.
\v 15 Then I came to them of the captivity at Tel-abib, that lived by the river Chebar, and to where they lived; and I sat
there overwhelmed among them seven days.
\p
\v 16 And it came to pass at the end of seven days, that the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 17 Son of man, I have made you a watchman to the house of Israel: therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them
warning from me.
\v 18 When I say to the wicked, You shall surely die; and you give him not warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from
his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at your hand.
\v 19 Yet if you warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity;
but you have delivered your soul.
\v 20 Again, when a righteous man does turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him,
he shall die: because you have not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteous deeds which he has done
shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at your hand.
\v 21 Nevertheless if you warn the righteous man, that the righteous sin not, and he does not sin, he shall surely live,
because he took warning; and you have delivered your soul.
\p
\v 22 And the hand of Jehovah was there upon me; and he said to me, Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk
with thee.
\v 23 Then I arose, and went forth into the plain: and, behold, the glory of Jehovah stood there, as the glory which I saw by
the river Chebar; and I fell on my face.
\v 24 Then the Spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet; and he spoke with me, and said to me, Go, shut yourself within
your house.
\v 25 But you, son of man, behold, they shall lay bands upon you, and shall bind you with them, and you shall not go out
among them:
\v 26 and I will make your tongue cleave to the roof of your mouth, that you shall be dumb, and shall not be to them a reprover;
for they are a rebellious house.
\v 27 But when I speak with thee, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: He that
heareth, let him hear; and he that forbeareth, let him forbear: for they are a rebellious house.