\c 4
\p
\v 1 You also, son of man, take you a tile, and lay it before you, and portray upon it a city, even Jerusalem:
\v 2 and lay siege against it, and build forts against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it, and plant
battering rams against it round about.
\v 3 And take you to you an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between you and the city: and set your face toward it,
and it shall be besieged, and you shall lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.
\p
\v 4 Moreover lie you upon your left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it;
according to the number of the days that you shall lie upon it, you shall bear their iniquity.
\v 5 For I have appointed the years of their iniquity to be to you a number of days, even three hundred and ninety days: so
shall you bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
\v 6 And again, when you have accomplished these, you shall lie on your right side, and shall bear the iniquity of the house
of Judah: forty days, each day for a year, have I appointed it to thee.
\v 7 And you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with your arm uncovered; and you shall prophesy against it.
\v 8 And, behold, I lay bands upon you, and you shall not turn you from one side to the other, till you have accomplished
the days of your siege.
\p
\v 9 Take you also to you wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and
make you bread thereof; according to the number of the days that you shall lie upon your side, even three hundred
and ninety days, shall you eat thereof.
\v 10 And your food which you shall eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shall you eat it.
\v 11 And you shall drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time shall you drink.
\v 12 And you shall eat it as barley cakes, and you shall bake it in their sight with dung that comes out of man.
\v 13 And Jehovah said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations whither I will drive
them.
\v 14 Then said I, Ah Lord Jehovah! behold, my soul has not been polluted; for from my youth up even till now have I not eaten
of that which dieth of itself, or is torn of beasts; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth.
\v 15 Then he said to me, See, I have given you cow’s dung for man’s dung, and you shall prepare your bread thereon.
\v 16 Moreover he said to me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by
weight, and with fearfulness; and they shall drink water by measure, and in dismay:
\v 17 that they may lack bread and water, and be dismayed one with another, and pine away in their iniquity.