\c 5
\p
\v 1 And you, son of man, take you a sharp sword; as a barber’s razor shall you take it to you, and shall cause
it to pass upon your head and upon your beard: then take you balances to weigh, and divide the hair.
\v 2 A third part shall you burn in the fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled; and you
shall take a third part, and strike with the sword round about it; and a third part you shall scatter to the wind, and I will
draw out a sword after them.
\v 3 And you shall take thereof a few in number, and bind them in your skirts.
\v 4 And of these again shall you take, and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them in the fire; therefrom shall a
fire come forth into all the house of Israel.
\p
\v 5 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: This is Jerusalem; I have set her in the midst of the nations, and countries are round about
her.
\v 6 And she has rebelled against mine ordinances in doing wickedness more than the nations, and against my statutes more than
the countries that are round about her; for they have rejected mine ordinances, and as for my statutes, they have not walked in
them.
\v 7 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because you are turbulent more than the nations that are round about you, and have
not walked in my statutes, neither have kept mine ordinances, neither have done after the ordinances of the nations that are
round about you;
\v 8 therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I, even I, am against thee; and I will execute judgments in the midst of
you in the sight of the nations.
\v 9 And I will do in you that which I have not done, and whereunto I will not do any more the like, because of all your
abominations.
\v 10 Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of thee, and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute
judgments on you; and the whole remnant of you will I scatter to all the winds.
\v 11 Wherefore, as I live, says the Lord Jehovah, surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable
things, and with all your abominations, therefore will I also diminish
thee; neither shall mine eye spare, and I also will have no pity.
\v 12 A third part of you shall die with the pestilence, and with famine shall they be consumed in the midst of you; and a
third part shall fall by the sword round about thee; and a third part I will scatter to all the winds, and will draw out a
sword after them.
\p
\v 13 Thus shall mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause my wrath toward them to rest, and I shall be comforted: and they
shall know that I, Jehovah, have spoken in my zeal, when I have accomplished my wrath upon them.
\v 14 Moreover I will make you a desolation and a reproach among the nations that are round about you, in the sight of all
that pass by.
\v 15 So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment, to the nations that are round about thee,
when I shall execute judgments on you in anger and in wrath, and in wrathful rebukes (I, Jehovah, have spoken it);
\v 16 when I shall send upon them the evil arrows of famine, that are for destruction, which I will send to destroy you. And I
will increase the famine upon you, and will break your staff of bread;
\v 17 and I will send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they shall bereave thee; and pestilence and blood shall pass through
thee; and I will bring the sword upon thee: I, Jehovah, have spoken it.