\c 6
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy to them,
\v 3 and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Jehovah: Thus says the Lord Jehovah to the mountains and to
the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high
places.
\v 4 And your altars shall become desolate, and your sun-images shall be broken; and I will cast down your slain men before
your idols.
\v 5 And I will lay the dead bodies of the children of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your bones round about
your altars.
\v 6 In all your dwelling-places the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be desolate; that your altars may be
laid waste and made desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your sun-images may be hewn down, and your works may
be abolished.
\v 7 And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 8 Yet will I leave a remnant, in that you shall have some that escape the sword among the nations, when you shall be scattered
through the countries.
\v 9 And those of you that escape shall remember me among the nations whither they shall be carried captive, how that I have
been broken with their lewd heart, which has departed from me, and with their eyes, which play the harlot after their idols:
and they shall loathe themselves in their own sight for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.
\v 10 And they shall know that I am Jehovah: I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them.
\p
\v 11 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Strike with your hand, and stamp with your foot, and say, Alas! because of all the evil
abominations of the house of Israel; for they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence.
\v 12 He that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he that is near shall fall by the sword; and he that remains and is
besieged shall die by the famine: thus will I accomplish my wrath upon them.
\v 13 And you shall know that I am Jehovah, when their slain men shall be among their idols round about their altars, upon every
high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the places where they
offered sweet savor to all their idols.
\v 14 And I will stretch out my hand upon them, and make the land desolate and waste, from the wilderness toward Diblah,
throughout all their habitations; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.