\c 9
\p
\v 1 Then he cried in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause you them that have charge over the city to draw near, every man
with his destroying weapon in his hand.
\v 2 And behold, six men came from the way of the upper gate, which lies toward the north, every man with his slaughter weapon
in his hand; and one man in the midst of them clothed in linen, with a writer’s inkhorn by his side. And they went in, and
stood beside the brazen altar.
\p
\v 3 And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon it was, to the threshold of the house: and he
called to the man clothed in linen, who had the writer’s inkhorn by his side.
\v 4 And Jehovah said to him, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the
foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry over all the abominations that are done in the midst thereof.
\v 5 And to the others he said in my hearing, Go you through the city after him, and smite: let not your eyou spare, neither have
you pity;
\v 6 kill utterly the old man, the young man and the virgin, and little children and women; but come not near any man upon whom
is the mark: and begin at my sanctuary. Then they began at the old men that were before the house.
\v 7 And he said to them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go you forth. And they went forth, and struck
in the city.
\v 8 And it came to pass, while they were smiting, and I was left, that I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah Lord
Jehovah! will you destroy all the residue of Israel in your pouring out of your wrath upon Jerusalem?
\p
\v 9 Then said he to me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blood, and
the city full of wresting of judgment: for they say, Jehovah has forsaken the land, and Jehovah sees not.
\v 10 And as for me also, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity, but I will bring their way upon their head.
\v 11 And, behold, the man clothed in linen, who had the inkhorn by his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as you
have commanded me.