\c 11
\p
\v 1 Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me to the east gate of Jehovah’s house, which looks eastward: and
behold, at the door of the gate five and twenty men; and I saw in the midst of them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah
the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
\v 2 And he said to me, Son of man, these are the men that devise iniquity, and that give wicked counsel in this city;
\v 3 that say, The time is not near to build houses: this
city is the caldron, and we are the flesh.
\v 4 Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man.
\p
\v 5 And the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon me, and he said to me, Speak, Thus says Jehovah: Thus have you said, O house of
Israel; for I know the things that come into your mind.
\v 6 You have multiplied your slain in this city, and you have filled the streets thereof with the slain.
\v 7 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Your slain whom you have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this
city is the caldron; but you shall be brought forth out of the midst of it.
\v 8 You have feared the sword; and I will bring the sword upon you, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 9 And I will bring you forth out of the midst thereof, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute
judgments among you.
\v 10 You shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of Israel; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 11 This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall you be the flesh in the midst thereof; I will judge you in
the border of Israel;
\v 12 and you shall know that I am Jehovah: for you have not walked in my statutes, neither have you executed mine ordinances, but
have done after the ordinances of the nations that are round about you.
\p
\v 13 And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried
with a loud voice, and said, Ah Lord Jehovah! will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel?
\p
\v 14 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 15 Son of man, your brethren, even your brethren, the men of your kindred, and all the house of Israel, all of them,
are they to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from Jehovah; to us is this land given for a
possession.
\v 16 Therefore say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have
scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they are come.
\v 17 Therefore say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries
where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.
\v 18 And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof
from thence.
\v 19 And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their
flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh;
\v 20 that they may walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be
their God.
\v 21 But as for them whose heart walks after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their
way upon their own heads, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 22 Then did the cherubim lift up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over
them above.
\v 23 And the glory of Jehovah went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the
city.
\v 24 And the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So
the vision that I had seen went up from me.
\v 25 Then I spoke to them of the captivity all the things that Jehovah had showed me.