\c 12
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah also came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, you live in the midst of the rebellious house, that have eyes to see, and see not, that have ears to
hear, and hear not; for they are a rebellious house.
\v 3 Therefore, you son of man, prepare you stuff for removing, and remove by day in their sight; and you shall remove from
your place to another place in their sight: it may be they will consider, though they are a rebellious house.
\v 4 And you shall bring forth your stuff by day in their sight, as stuff for removing; and you shall go forth yourself at even
in their sight, as when men go forth into exile.
\v 5 Dig you through the wall in their sight, and carry out thereby.
\v 6 In their sight shall you bear it upon your shoulder, and carry it forth in the dark; you shall cover your face, that you
see not the land: for I have set you for a sign to the house of Israel.
\p
\v 7 And I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth my stuff by day, as stuff for removing, and in the even I digged through
the wall with my hand; I brought it forth in the dark, and bare it upon my shoulder in their sight.
\p
\v 8 And in the morning came the word of Jehovah to me, saying,
\v 9 Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said to thee, What do thou?
\v 10 Say you to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: This burden
concerns the prince in Jerusalem, and all the house of Israel among whom they are.
\v 11 Say, I am your sign: like as I have done, so shall it be done to them; they shall go into exile, into captivity.
\v 12 And the prince that is among them shall bear upon his shoulder in the dark, and shall go forth: they shall dig through
the wall to carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, because he shall not see the land with his eyes.
\v 13 My net also will I spread upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare; and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the
Chaldeans; yet shall he not see it, though he shall die there.
\v 14 And I will scatter toward every wind all that are round about him to help him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the
sword after them.
\v 15 And they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall disperse them among the nations, and scatter them through the
countries.
\v 16 But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from the famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all
their abominations among the nations whither they come; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 17 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 18 Son of man, eat your bread with quaking, and drink your water with trembling and with fearfulness;
\v 19 and say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord Jehovah concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the land of
Israel: They shall eat their bread with fearfulness, and drink their water in dismay, that her land may be desolate,
and despoiled of all that is therein, because of the violence of all them that dwell therein.
\v 20 And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be a desolation; and you shall know that I am
Jehovah.
\p
\v 21 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 22 Son of man, what is this proverb that you have in the land of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision
faileth?
\v 23 Tell them therefore, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: I will make this proverb to cease, and they shall no more use it as a
proverb in Israel; but say to them, The days are at hand, and the fulfilment of every vision.
\v 24 For there shall be no more any false vision nor flattering divination within the house of Israel.
\v 25 For I am Jehovah; I will speak, and the word that I shall speak shall be performed; it shall be no more deferred: for in
your days, O rebellious house, will I speak the word, and will perform it, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 26 Again the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 27 Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that he sees is for many days to come, and he
prophesieth of times that are far off.
\v 28 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: There shall none of my words be deferred any more, but the word
which I shall speak shall be performed, says the Lord Jehovah.