\c 13
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say you to them that prophesy out of their own
heart, Hear you the word of Jehovah:
\v 3 Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Woe to the foolish prophets, that follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
\v 4 O Israel, your prophets have been like foxes in the waste places.
\v 5 You have not gone up into the gaps, neither built up the wall for the house of Israel, to stand in the battle in the day of
Jehovah.
\v 6 They have seen falsehood and lying divination, that say, Jehovah saith; but Jehovah has not sent them: and they have made
men to hope that the word would be confirmed.
\v 7 Have you not seen a false vision, and have you not spoken a lying divination, in that you say, Jehovah saith; albeit I have
not spoken?
\p
\v 8 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because you have spoken falsehood, and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am against
you, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 9 And my hand shall be against the prophets that see false visions, and that divine lies: they shall not be in the council
of my people, neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of
Israel; and you shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
\v 10 Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying, Peace; and there is no peace; and when one builds up a wall,
behold, they daub it with untempered mortar:
\v 11 say to them that daub it with untempered mortar, that it shall fall: there shall be an overflowing shower;
and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a stormy wind shall rend it.
\v 12 Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said to you, Where is the daubing wherewith you have daubed it?
\v 13 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: I will even rend it with a stormy wind in my wrath; and there shall be an
overflowing shower in mine anger, and great hailstones in wrath to consume it.
\v 14 So will I break down the wall that you have daubed with untempered
mortar, and bring it down to the ground, so that the foundation thereof shall be uncovered; and it shall fall, and you
shall be consumed in the midst thereof: and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 15 Thus will I accomplish my wrath upon the wall, and upon them that have daubed it with untempered
mortar; and I will say to you, The wall is no more, neither they that daubed it;
\v 16 to wit, the prophets of Israel that prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and that see visions of peace for her, and
there is no peace, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 17 And thou, son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people, that prophesy out of their own heart; and
prophesy you against them,
\v 18 and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Woe to the women that sew pillows upon all elbows, and make kerchiefs for the head
of persons of every stature to hunt souls! Will you hunt the souls of my people, and save souls alive for yourselves?
\v 19 And you have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to kill the souls that should not
die, and to save the souls alive that should not live, by your lying to my people that listen to lies.
\p
\v 20 Wherefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against your pillows, wherewith you there hunt the souls to make
them fly, and I will tear them from your arms; and I will let the souls go, even the souls that you hunt to make
them fly.
\v 21 Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be
hunted; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 22 Because with lies you have grieved the heart of the righteous, whom I have not made sad, and strengthened the hands of the
wicked, that he should not return from his wicked way, and be saved alive;
\v 23 Therefore you shall no more see false visions, nor divine divinations: and I will deliver my people out of your hand; and
you shall know that I am Jehovah.