\c 14
\p
\v 1 Then came certain of the elders of Israel to me, and sat before me.
\v 2 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 3 Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their heart, and put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their
face: should I be inquired of at all by them?
\v 4 Therefore speak to them, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Every man of the house of Israel that takes
his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the prophet; I Jehovah
will answer him therein according to the multitude of his idols;
\v 5 that I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, because they are all estranged from me through their idols.
\p
\v 6 Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Return ye, and turn yourselves from your idols; and
turn away your faces from all your abominations.
\v 7 For every one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, that separateth himself from me, and
takes his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the prophet to
inquire for himself of me; I Jehovah will answer him by myself:
\v 8 and I will set my face against that man, and will make him an astonishment, for a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him
off from the midst of my people; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 9 And if the prophet be deceived and speak a word, I, Jehovah, have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand
upon him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.
\v 10 And they shall bear their iniquity: the iniquity of the prophet shall be even as the iniquity of him that seeks
to him;
\v 11 that the house of Israel may go no more astray from me, neither defile themselves any more with all their transgressions;
but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 12 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 13 Son of man, when a land sins against me by committing a trespass, and I stretch out my hand upon it, and break the
staff of the bread thereof, and send famine upon it, and cut off from it man and beast;
\v 14 though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they should deliver but their own souls by their
righteousness, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 15 If I cause evil beasts to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it be made desolate, so that no man may pass
through because of the beasts;
\v 16 though these three men were in it, as I live, says the Lord Jehovah, they should deliver neither sons nor daughters;
they only should be delivered, but the land should be desolate.
\v 17 Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Sword, go through the land; so that I cut off from it man and beast;
\v 18 though these three men were in it, as I live, says the Lord Jehovah, they should deliver neither sons nor daughters, but
they only should be delivered themselves.
\v 19 Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my wrath upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast;
\v 20 though Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, as I live, says the Lord Jehovah, they should deliver neither son nor
daughter; they should but deliver their own souls by their righteousness.
\p
\v 21 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: How much more when I send my four sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the
famine, and the evil beasts, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast!
\v 22 Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be carried forth, both sons and daughters: behold, they shall
come forth to you, and you shall see their way and their doings; and you shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have
brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought upon it.
\v 23 And they shall comfort you, when you see their way and their doings; and you shall know that I have not done without cause
all that I have done in it, says the Lord Jehovah.