\c 16
\p
\v 1 Again the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations;
\v 3 and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah to Jerusalem: Your birth and your nativity is of the land of the Canaanite; the
Amorite was your father, and your mother was a Hittite.
\v 4 And as for your nativity, in the day you was born your navel was not cut, neither was you washed in water to cleanse
thee; you was not salted at all, nor swaddled at all.
\v 5 No eye pitied thee, to do any of these things to thee, to have compassion upon thee; but you was cast out in the open
field, for that your person was abhorred, in the day that you was born.
\p
\v 6 And when I passed by you, and saw you weltering in your blood, I said to you,
Though you are in your blood, live; yea, I said to thee,
Though you are in your blood, live.
\v 7 I caused you to multiply as that which grows in the field, and you did increase and wax great, and you attainedst
to excellent ornament; your breasts were fashioned, and your hair was grown; yet you was naked and bare.
\v 8 Now when I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, your time was the time of love; and I spread my skirt over thee,
and covered your nakedness: yea, I sware to thee, and entered into a covenant with thee, says the Lord Jehovah, and you
became mine.
\v 9 Then washed I you with water; yea, I thoroughly washed away your blood from you, and I anointed you with oil.
\v 10 I clothed you also with broidered work, and shod you with sealskin, and I girded you about with fine linen, and
covered you with silk.
\v 11 And I decked you with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon your hands, and a chain on your neck.
\v 12 And I put a ring upon your nose, and ear-rings in your ears, and a beautiful crown upon your head.
\v 13 Thus was you decked with gold and silver; and your raiment was of fine linen, and silk, and broidered work; you did
eat fine flour, and honey, and oil; and you was exceeding beautiful, and you did prosper to royal estate.
\v 14 And your renown went forth among the nations for your beauty; for it was perfect, through my majesty which I had put upon
thee, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 15 But you did trust in your beauty, and playedst the harlot because of your renown, and pouredst out your whoredoms on
every one that passed by; his it was.
\v 16 And you did take of your garments, and made for you high places decked with various colors, and playedst the harlot
upon them: the like things shall not come, neither shall it be
so.
\v 17 You did also take your fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given you, and made for you images of
men, and did play the harlot with them;
\v 18 and you took your broidered garments, and coveredst them, and did set mine oil and mine incense before them.
\v 19 My bread also which I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey, wherewith I fed thee, you did even set it before them
for a sweet savor; and thus it was, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 20 Moreover you have taken your sons and your daughters, whom you have borne to me, and these have you sacrificed to
them to be devoured. Were your whoredoms a small matter,
\v 21 that you have slain my children, and delivered them up, in causing them to pass through
the fire to them?
\v 22 And in all your abominations and your whoredoms you have not remembered the days of your youth, when you was naked and
bare, and was weltering in your blood.
\p
\v 23 And it is come to pass after all your wickedness (woe, woe to thee! says the Lord Jehovah),
\v 24 that you have built to you a vaulted place, and have made you a lofty place in every street.
\v 25 You have built your lofty place at the head of every way, and have made your beauty an abomination, and have opened your
feet to every one that passed by, and multiplied your whoredom.
\v 26 You have also committed fornication with the Egyptians, your neighbors, great of flesh; and have multiplied your whoredom,
to provoke me to anger.
\v 27 Behold therefore, I have stretched out my hand over thee, and have diminished your ordinary
food, and delivered you to the will of them that hate you, the daughters of the Philistines, that are ashamed of
your lewd way.
\v 28 You have played the harlot also with the Assyrians, because you was insatiable; yea, you have played the harlot with
them, and yet you was not satisfied.
\v 29 You have moreover multiplied your whoredom to the land of traffic, to Chaldea; and yet you was not satisfied
herewith.
\p
\v 30 How weak is your heart, says the Lord Jehovah, seeing you do all these things, the work of an impudent harlot;
\v 31 in that you buildest your vaulted place at the head of every way, and make your lofty place in every street, and have
not been as a harlot, in that you scornest hire.
\v 32 A wife that committeth adultery! that takes strangers instead of her husband!
\v 33 They give gifts to all harlots; but you give your gifts to all your lovers, and bribest them, that they may come to
you on every side for your whoredoms.
\v 34 And you are different from other women in your whoredoms, in that none follows you to play the harlot; and
whereas you give hire, and no hire is given to thee, therefore you are different.
\p
\v 35 Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of Jehovah:
\v 36 Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Because your filthiness was poured out, and your nakedness uncovered through your whoredoms
with your lovers; and because of all the idols of your abominations, and for the blood of your children, that you did give to
them;
\v 37 therefore behold, I will gather all your lovers, with whom you have taken pleasure, and all them that you have loved,
with all them that you have hated; I will even gather them against you on every side, and will uncover your nakedness to
them, that they may see all your nakedness.
\v 38 And I will judge you, as women that break wedlock and shed blood are judged; and I will bring upon you the blood of
wrath and jealousy.
\v 39 I will also give you into their hand, and they shall throw down your vaulted place, and break down your lofty places; and
they shall strip you of your clothes, and take your fair jewels; and they shall leave you naked and bare.
\v 40 They shall also bring up a company against you, and they shall stone you with stones, and thrust you through with
their swords.
\v 41 And they shall burn your houses with fire, and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women; and I will cause
you to cease from playing the harlot, and you shall also give no hire any more.
\v 42 So will I cause my wrath toward you to rest, and my jealousy shall depart from you, and I will be quiet, and will be no
more angry.
\v 43 Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have raged against me in all these things; therefore, behold,
I also will bring your way upon your head, says the Lord Jehovah: and you shall not commit this lewdness with all your
abominations.
\p
\v 44 Behold, every one that uses proverbs shall use this proverb against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her
daughter.
\v 45 You are the daughter of your mother, that loatheth her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your sisters,
who loathed their husbands and their children: your mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
\v 46 And your elder sister is Samaria, that lives at your left hand, she and her daughters; and your younger sister, that
lives at your right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
\v 47 Yet have you not walked in their ways, nor done after their abominations; but, as
if that were a very little thing, you was more corrupt than they in all your ways.
\v 48 As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, Sodom your sister has not done, she nor her daughters, as you have done, you and your
daughters.
\v 49 Behold, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: pride, fulness of bread, and prosperous ease was in her and in her
daughters; neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.
\v 50 And they were haughty, and committed abomination before me: therefore I took them away as I saw
good.
\v 51 Neither has Samaria committed half of your sins; but you have multiplied your abominations more than they, and have
justified your sisters by all your abominations which you have done.
\v 52 You also, bear you your own shame, in that you have given judgment for your sisters; through your sins that you have
committed more abominable than they, they are more righteous than you: yea, be you also confounded, and bear your shame, in
that you have justified your sisters.
\p
\v 53 And I will turn again their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her
daughters, and the captivity of your captives in the midst of them;
\v 54 that you may bear your own shame, and may be ashamed because of all that you have done, in that you are a
comfort to them.
\v 55 And your sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to their former estate; and Samaria and her daughters shall return
to their former estate; and you and your daughters shall return to your former estate.
\v 56 For your sister Sodom was not mentioned by your mouth in the day of your pride,
\v 57 before your wickedness was uncovered, as at the time of the reproach of the daughters of Syria, and of all that are round
about her, the daughters of the Philistines, that do despite to you round about.
\v 58 You have borne your lewdness and your abominations, says Jehovah.
\v 59 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: I will also deal with you as you have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the
covenant.
\p
\v 60 Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish to you an
everlasting covenant.
\v 61 Then shall you remember your ways, and be ashamed, when you shall receive your sisters, your elder
sisters and your younger; and I will give them to you for daughters, but not by your covenant.
\v 62 And I will establish my covenant with thee; and you shall know that I am Jehovah;
\v 63 that you may remember, and be confounded, and never open your mouth any more, because of your shame, when I have
forgiven you all that you have done, says the Lord Jehovah.