\c 17
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, put forth a riddle, and speak a parable to the house of Israel;
\v 3 and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: A great eagle with great wings and long pinions, full of feathers, which had various
colors, came to Lebanon, and took the top of the cedar:
\v 4 he cropped off the topmost of the young twigs thereof, and carried it to a land of traffic; he set it in a city of
merchants.
\v 5 He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a fruitful soil; he placed it beside many waters; he set it as a
willow-tree.
\v 6 And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose branches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were
under him: so it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.
\p
\v 7 There was also another great eagle with great wings and many feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend its roots toward
him, and shot forth its branches toward him, from the beds of its plantation, that he might water it.
\v 8 It was planted in a good soil by many waters, that it might bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it
might be a goodly vine.
\v 9 Say thou, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Shall it prosper? shall he not pull up the roots thereof, and cut off the fruit
thereof, that it may wither; that all its fresh springing leaves may wither? and not by a strong arm or much people can it be
raised from the roots thereof.
\v 10 Yea, behold, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it not utterly wither, when the east wind touches it? it shall
wither in the beds where it grew.
\p
\v 11 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 12 Say now to the rebellious house, Know you not what these things mean? tell them, Behold, the king of Babylon came to
Jerusalem, and took the king thereof, and the princes thereof, and brought them to him to Babylon.
\v 13 And he took of the seed royal, and made a covenant with him; he also brought him under an oath, and took away the mighty
of the land;
\v 14 that the kingdom might be base, that it might not lift itself up, but that by keeping his covenant it might stand.
\v 15 But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into Egypt, that they might give him horses and much people. Shall
he prosper? shall he escape that does such things? shall he break the covenant, and yet escape?
\v 16 As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, surely in the place where the king lives that made him king, whose oath he
despised, and whose covenant he brake, even with him in the midst of Babylon he shall die.
\v 17 Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company help him in the war, when they cast up mounds and build
forts, to cut off many persons.
\v 18 For he has despised the oath by breaking the covenant; and behold, he had given his hand, and yet has done all these
things; he shall not escape.
\v 19 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: As I live, surely mine oath that he has despised, and my covenant that he has
broken, I will even bring it upon his own head.
\v 20 And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will enter
into judgment with him there for his trespass that he has trespassed against me.
\v 21 And all his fugitives in all his bands shall fall by the sword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward every
wind: and you shall know that I, Jehovah, have spoken it.
\p
\v 22 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: I will also take of the lofty top of the cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the
topmost of its young twigs a tender one, and I will plant it upon a high and lofty mountain:
\v 23 in the mountain of the height of Israel will I plant it; and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly
cedar: and under it shall dwell all birds of every wing; in the shade of the branches thereof shall they dwell.
\v 24 And all the trees of the field shall know that I, Jehovah, have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree,
have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish: I, Jehovah, have spoken and have done it.