\c 18
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah came to me again, saying,
\v 2 What mean you, that you use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the
children’s teeth are set on edge?
\v 3 As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, you shall not have occasion
any more to use this proverb in Israel.
\v 4 Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it
shall die.
\p
\v 5 But if a man be just, and do that which is lawful and right,
\v 6 and has not eaten upon the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, neither has
defiled his neighbor’s wife, neither has come near to a woman in her impurity,
\v 7 and has not wronged any, but has restored to the debtor his pledge, has taken nothing by robbery, has given his bread
to the hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;
\v 8 he that has not given forth upon interest, neither has taken any increase, that has withdrawn his hand from iniquity,
has executed true justice between man and man,
\v 9 has walked in my statutes, and has kept mine ordinances, to deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live, says the Lord
Jehovah.
\p
\v 10 If he beget a son that is a robber, a shedder of blood, and that does any one of these things,
\v 11 and that does not any of those duties, but even has eaten upon the mountains, and defiled his neighbor’s
wife,
\v 12 has wronged the poor and needy, has taken by robbery, has not restored the pledge, and has lifted up his eyes to the
idols, has committed abomination,
\v 13 has given forth upon interest, and has taken increase; shall he then live? he shall not live: he has done all these
abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon him.
\p
\v 14 Now, lo, if he beget a son, that sees all his father’s sins, which he has done, and feareth, and does not such like;
\v 15 that has not eaten upon the mountains, neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, has not
defiled his neighbor’s wife,
\v 16 neither has wronged any, has not taken anything to pledge, neither has taken by robbery, but has given his bread to the
hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;
\v 17 that has withdrawn his hand from the poor, that has not received interest nor increase, has executed mine ordinances,
has walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his father, he shall surely live.
\v 18 As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, robbed his brother, and did that which is not good among his people,
behold, he shall die in his iniquity.
\p
\v 19 Yet say ye, Wherefore does not the son bear the iniquity of the father? When the son has done that which is lawful and
right, and has kept all my statutes, and has done them, he shall surely live.
\v 20 The soul that sinneth, it shall die: the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the
iniquity of the son; the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.
\p
\v 21 But if the wicked turn from all his sins that he has committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful
and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
\v 22 None of his transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him: in his righteousness that he has done
he shall live.
\v 23 Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked? says the Lord Jehovah; and not rather that he should return from his
way, and live?
\v 24 But when the righteous turns away from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, and does according to all the
abominations that the wicked man doeth, shall he live? None of his righteous deeds that he has done shall be remembered: in
his trespass that he has trespassed, and in his sin that he has sinned, in them shall he die.
\p
\v 25 Yet you say, The way of the Lord is not equal. Hear now, O house of Israel: Is not my way equal? are not your ways
unequal?
\v 26 When the righteous man turns away from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, and dieth therein; in his iniquity
that he has done shall he die.
\v 27 Again, when the wicked man turns away from his wickedness that he has committed, and does that which is lawful and
right, he shall save his soul alive.
\v 28 Because he considereth, and turns away from all his transgressions that he has committed, he shall surely live, he
shall not die.
\v 29 Yet says the house of Israel, The way of the Lord is not equal. O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? are not your
ways unequal?
\v 30 Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, says the Lord Jehovah. Return ye, and
turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.
\v 31 Cast away from you all your transgressions, wherein you have transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit: for
why will you die, O house of Israel?
\v 32 For I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth, says the Lord Jehovah: wherefore turn yourselves, and live.