\c 20
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, the tenth
day of the month, that certain of the elders of Israel came to inquire of Jehovah, and sat before me.
\v 2 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 3 Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Is it to inquire of me that
you are come? As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, I will not be inquired of by you.
\v 4 Wilt you judge them, son of man, will you judge them? Cause them to know the abominations of their fathers;
\v 5 and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: In the day when I chose Israel, and sware to the seed of the house of
Jacob, and made myself known to them in the land of Egypt, when I sware to them, saying, I am Jehovah your God;
\v 6 in that day I sware to them, to bring them forth out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had searched out for them,
flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands.
\v 7 And I said to them, Cast you away every man the abominations of his eyous, and defile not yourselves with the idols of
Egypt; I am Jehovah your God.
\v 8 But they rebelled against me, and would not listen to me; they did not every man cast away the abominations of their
eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them, to accomplish my anger
against them in the midst of the land of Egypt.
\v 9 But I wrought for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, among which they were, in
whose sight I made myself known to them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt.
\p
\v 10 So I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wilderness.
\v 11 And I gave them my statutes, and showed them mine ordinances, which if a man do, he shall live in them.
\v 12 Moreover also I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am Jehovah that
sanctifieth them.
\v 13 But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness: they walked not in my statutes, and they rejected mine
ordinances, which if a man keep, he shall live in them; and my sabbaths they greatly profaned. Then I said I would pour out my
wrath upon them in the wilderness, to consume them.
\v 14 But I wrought for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I brought
them out.
\v 15 Moreover also I sware to them in the wilderness, that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them,
flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands;
\v 16 because they rejected mine ordinances, and walked not in my statutes, and profaned my sabbaths: for their heart went
after their idols.
\v 17 Nevertheless mine eye spared them, and I destroyed them not, neither did I make a full end of them in the wilderness.
\p
\v 18 And I said to their children in the wilderness, Walk you not in the statutes of your fathers, neither observe their
ordinances, nor defile yourselves with their idols.
\v 19 I am Jehovah your God: walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them;
\v 20 and hallow my sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am Jehovah your God.
\v 21 But the children rebelled against me; they walked not in my statutes, neither kept mine ordinances to do them, which if a
man do, he shall live in them; they profaned my sabbaths. Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them, to accomplish my
anger against them in the wilderness.
\v 22 Nevertheless I withdrew my hand, and wrought for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the
nations, in whose sight I brought them forth.
\v 23 Moreover I sware to them in the wilderness, that I would scatter them among the nations, and disperse them through the
countries;
\v 24 because they had not executed mine ordinances, but had rejected my statutes, and had profaned my sabbaths, and their eyes
were after their fathers’ idols.
\v 25 Moreover also I gave them statutes that were not good, and ordinances wherein they should not live;
\v 26 and I polluted them in their own gifts, in that they caused to pass through
the fire all that opens the womb, that I might make them desolate, to the end that they might know that I am
Jehovah.
\p
\v 27 Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: In this moreover
have your fathers blasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me.
\v 28 For when I had brought them into the land, which I sware to give to them, then they saw every high hill, and every
thick tree, and they offered there their sacrifices, and there they presented the provocation of their offering; there also
they made their sweet savor, and they poured out there their drink-offerings.
\v 29 Then I said to them, What meaneth the high place whereto you go? So the name thereof is called Bamah to this day.
\v 30 Wherefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Do you pollute yourselves after the manner of your
fathers? and play you the harlot after their abominations?
\v 31 and when you offer your gifts, when you make your sons to pass through the fire, do you pollute yourselves with all your
idols to this day? and shall I be inquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, I will not be
inquired of by you;
\v 32 and that which comes into your mind shall not be at all, in that you say, We will be as the nations, as the families of
the countries, to serve wood and stone.
\p
\v 33 As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, surely with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out,
will I be king over you:
\v 34 and I will bring you out from the peoples, and will gather you out of the countries wherein you are scattered, with a
mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out;
\v 35 and I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there will I enter into judgment with you face to face.
\v 36 Like as I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I enter into judgment
with you, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 37 And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant;
\v 38 and I will purge out from among you the rebels, and them that transgress against me; I will bring them forth out of the
land where they sojourn, but they shall not enter into the land of Israel: and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 39 As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord Jehovah: Go you, serve every one his idols, and hereafter also, if you
will not listen to me; but my holy name shall you no more profane with your gifts, and with your idols.
\p
\v 40 For in my holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of Israel, says the Lord Jehovah, there shall all the house of
Israel, all of them, serve me in the land: there will I accept them, and there will I require your offerings, and the
first fruits of your oblations, with all your holy things.
\v 41 As a sweet savor will I accept you, when I bring you out from the peoples, and gather you out of the countries wherein you
have been scattered; and I will be sanctified in you in the sight of the nations.
\v 42 And you shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall bring you into the land of Israel, into the country which I sware to
give to your fathers.
\v 43 And there shall you remember your ways, and all your doings, wherein you have polluted yourselves; and you shall loathe
yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that you have committed.
\v 44 And you shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have dealt with you for my name’s sake, not according to your evil ways, nor
according to your corrupt doings, O you house of Israel, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 45 \f + Ch 21:1 in Heb.\f*And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 46 Son of man, set your face toward the south, and drop your word
toward the south, and prophesy against the forest of the field in the South;
\v 47 and say to the forest of the South, Hear the word of Jehovah: Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I will kindle a fire
in thee, and it shall devour every green tree in thee, and every dry tree: the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all
faces from the south to the north shall be burnt thereby.
\v 48 And all flesh shall see that I, Jehovah, have kindled it; it shall not be quenched.
\v 49 Then said I, Ah Lord Jehovah! they say of me, Is he not a speaker of parables?