\c 21
\p
\v 1 \f + Ch 21:6 in Heb.\f*And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem, and drop your word
toward the sanctuaries, and prophesy against the land of Israel;
\v 3 and say to the land of Israel, Thus says Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, and will draw forth my sword out of its
sheath, and will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked.
\v 4 Seeing then that I will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of its
sheath against all flesh from the south to the north:
\v 5 and all flesh shall know that I, Jehovah, have drawn forth my sword out of its sheath; it shall not return any more.
\v 6 Sigh therefore, you son of man; with the breaking of your loins and with bitterness shall you sigh before their eyes.
\v 7 And it shall be, when they say to thee, Wherefore sighest you? that you shall say, Because of the tidings, for it
cometh; and every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and all knees shall be weak as
water: behold, it cometh, and it shall be done, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 8 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 9 Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says Jehovah: Say, A sword, a sword, it is sharpened, and also furbished;
\v 10 it is sharpened that it may make a slaughter; it is furbished that it may be as lightning: shall we then make mirth? the
rod of my son, it contemns every tree.
\v 11 And it is given to be furbished, that it may be handled: the sword, it is sharpened, yea, it is furbished, to give it
into the hand of the slayer.
\v 12 Cry and wail, son of man; for it is upon my people, it is upon all the princes of Israel: they are delivered over to the
sword with my people; strike therefore upon your thigh.
\v 13 For there is a trial; and what if even the rod that contemns shall be no more? says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 14 You therefore, son of man, prophesy, and strike your hands together; and let the sword be doubled the third time, the
sword of the deadly wounded: it is the sword of the great one that is deadly wounded, which enters into their chambers.
\v 15 I have set the threatening sword against all their gates, that their heart may melt, and their stumblings be multiplied:
ah! it is made as lightning, it is pointed for slaughter.
\v 16 Gather you together, go to the right, set yourself in array, go to the left, wherever your face is set.
\v 17 I will also strike my hands together, and I will cause my wrath to rest: I, Jehovah, have spoken it.
\p
\v 18 The word of Jehovah came to me again, saying,
\v 19 Also, you son of man, appoint you two ways, that the sword of the king of Babylon may come; they twain shall come forth
out of one land: and mark out a place, mark it out at the head of the way to the city.
\v 20 You shall appoint a way for the sword to come to Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and to Judah in Jerusalem the
fortified.
\v 21 For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination: he shook the
arrows to and fro, he consulted the teraphim, he looked in the liver.
\v 22 In his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth in the slaughter,
to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to build forts.
\v 23 And it shall be to them as a false divination in their sight, who have sworn oaths to them; but he brings iniquity
to remembrance, that they may be taken.
\p
\v 24 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because you have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions
are uncovered, so that in all your doings your sins do appear; because that you are come to remembrance, you shall be taken with
the hand.
\v 25 And thou, O deadly wounded wicked one, the prince of Israel, whose day is come, in the time of the iniquity of the end,
\v 26 thus says the Lord Jehovah: Remove the mitre, and take off the crown; this
shall be no more the same; exalt that which is low, and abase that which is high.
\v 27 I will overturn, overturn, overturn it: this also shall be no more, until he come whose right it is; and I will give it
him.
\p
\v 28 And thou, son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah concerning the children of Ammon, and concerning
their reproach; and say thou, A sword, a sword is drawn, for the slaughter it is furbished, to cause it to devour, that it may
be as lightning;
\v 29 while they see for you false visions, while they divine lies to you, to lay you upon the necks of the wicked that
are deadly wounded, whose day is come in the time of the iniquity of the end.
\v 30 Cause it to return into its sheath. In the place where you was created, in the land of your birth, will I judge thee.
\v 31 And I will pour out mine indignation upon you; I will blow upon you with the fire of my wrath; and I will deliver you
into the hand of brutish men, skillful to destroy.
\v 32 You shall be for fuel to the fire; your blood shall be in the midst of the land; you shall be no more remembered: for I,
Jehovah, have spoken it.