\c 22
\p
\v 1 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 And you, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? then cause her to know all her abominations.
\v 3 And you shall say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: A city that sheds blood in the midst of her, that her time may come,
and that makes idols against herself to defile her!
\v 4 You are become guilty in your blood that you have shed, and are defiled in your idols which you have made; and you
have caused your days to draw near, and are come even to your years: therefore have I made you a reproach to the nations,
and a mocking to all the countries.
\v 5 Those that are near, and those that are far from thee, shall mock thee, you infamous one
and full of tumult.
\p
\v 6 Behold, the princes of Israel, every one according to his power, have been in you to shed blood.
\v 7 In you have they set light by father and mother; in the midst of you have they dealt by oppression with the sojourner;
in you have they wronged the fatherless and the widow.
\v 8 You have despised my holy things, and have profaned my sabbaths.
\v 9 Slanderous men have been in you to shed blood; and in you they have eaten upon the mountains: in the midst of you they
have committed lewdness.
\v 10 In you have they uncovered their fathers’ nakedness; in you have they humbled her that was unclean in her impurity.
\v 11 And one has committed abomination with his neighbor’s wife; and another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law; and
another in you has humbled his sister, his father’s daughter.
\v 12 In you have they taken bribes to shed blood; you have taken interest and increase, and you have greedily gained of your
neighbors by oppression, and have forgotten me, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 13 Behold, therefore, I have struck my hand at your dishonest gain which you have made, and at your blood which has been in
the midst of thee.
\v 14 Can your heart endure, or can your hands be strong, in the days that I shall deal with thee? I, Jehovah, have spoken it,
and will do it.
\v 15 And I will scatter you among the nations, and disperse you through the countries; and I will consume your filthiness out
of thee.
\v 16 And you shall be profaned in thyself, in the sight of the nations; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 17 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 18 Son of man, the house of Israel is become dross to me: all of them are brass and tin and iron and lead, in the midst of
the furnace; they are the dross of silver.
\v 19 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because you are all become dross, therefore, behold, I will gather you into the
midst of Jerusalem.
\v 20 As they gather silver and brass and iron and lead and tin into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to
melt it; so will I gather you in mine anger and in my wrath, and I will lay you there, and melt you.
\v 21 Yea, I will gather you, and blow upon you with the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst thereof.
\v 22 As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall you be melted in the midst thereof; and you shall know that I,
Jehovah, have poured out my wrath upon you.
\p
\v 23 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 24 Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon in the day of indignation.
\v 25 There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey: they have devoured
souls; they take treasure and precious things; they have made her widows many in the midst thereof.
\v 26 Her priests have done violence to my law, and have profaned my holy things: they have made no distinction between the
holy and the common, neither have they caused men to discern between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my
sabbaths, and I am profaned among them.
\v 27 Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood,
and to destroy souls, that they may get dishonest gain.
\v 28 And her prophets have daubed for them with untempered mortar, seeing false visions, and divining lies to
them, saying, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, when Jehovah has not spoken.
\v 29 The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised robbery; yea, they have vexed the poor and needy, and have
oppressed the sojourner wrongfully.
\v 30 And I sought for a man among them, that should build up the wall, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I
should not destroy it; but I found none.
\v 31 Therefore have I poured out mine indignation upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way
have I brought upon their heads, says the Lord Jehovah.