\c 23
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother:
\v 3 and they played the harlot in Egypt; they played the harlot in their youth; there were their breasts pressed, and there
was handled the bosom of their virginity.
\v 4 And the names of them were Oholah the elder, and Oholibah her sister: and they became mine, and they bare sons and
daughters. And as for their names, Samaria is Oholah, and Jerusalem Oholibah.
\p
\v 5 And Oholah played the harlot when she was mine; and she doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians
her neighbors,
\v 6 who were clothed with blue, governors and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding upon horses.
\v 7 And she bestowed her whoredoms upon them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them; and on whoever she doted, with all
their idols she defiled herself.
\v 8 Neither has she left her whoredoms since the days of Egypt; for in her youth they lay with her, and they
handled the bosom of her virginity; and they poured out their whoredom upon her.
\v 9 Wherefore I delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.
\v 10 These uncovered her nakedness; they took her sons and her daughters; and her they killed with the sword: and she became a
byword among women; for they executed judgments upon her.
\p
\v 11 And her sister Oholibah saw this, yet was she more corrupt in her doting than she, and in her whoredoms which were more
than the whoredoms of her sister.
\v 12 She doted upon the Assyrians, governors and rulers, her neighbors, clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding
upon horses, all of them desirable young men.
\v 13 And I saw that she was defiled; they both took one way.
\v 14 And she increased her whoredoms; for she saw men portrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans portrayed with
vermilion,
\v 15 girded with girdles upon their loins, with flowing turbans upon their heads, all of them princes to look upon, after the
likeness of the Babylonians in Chaldea, the land of their nativity.
\v 16 And as soon as she saw them she doted upon them, and sent messengers to them into Chaldea.
\v 17 And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their whoredom, and she was polluted with
them, and her soul was alienated from them.
\v 18 So she uncovered her whoredoms, and uncovered her nakedness: then my soul was alienated from her, like as my soul was
alienated from her sister.
\v 19 Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, remembering the days of her youth, wherein she had played the harlot in the land of
Egypt.
\v 20 And she doted upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh of asses, and whose issue is like the issue of horses.
\v 21 Thus you calledst to remembrance the lewdness of your youth, in the handling of your bosom by the Egyptians for the
breasts of your youth.
\p
\v 22 Therefore, O Oholibah, thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will raise up your lovers against thee, from whom your soul
is alienated, and I will bring them against you on every side:
\v 23 the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, Pekod and Shoa and Koa,
and all the Assyrians with them; desirable young men, governors and rulers all of them, princes and men of renown,
all of them riding upon horses.
\v 24 And they shall come against you with weapons, chariots, and wagons, and with a company of peoples; they shall set
themselves against you with buckler and shield and helmet round about: and I will commit the judgment to them, and they
shall judge you according to their judgments.
\v 25 And I will set my jealousy against you, and they shall deal with you in fury; they shall take away your nose and your
ears; and your residue shall fall by the sword: they shall take your sons and your daughters; and your residue shall be devoured by
the fire.
\v 26 They shall also strip you of your clothes, and take away your fair jewels.
\v 27 Thus will I make your lewdness to cease from thee, and your whoredom
brought from the land of Egypt; so that you shall not lift up your eyes to them, nor remember Egypt any more.
\v 28 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will deliver you into the hand of them whom you hatest, into the hand of
them from whom your soul is alienated;
\v 29 and they shall deal with you in hatred, and shall take away all your labor, and shall leave you naked and bare; and the
nakedness of your whoredoms shall be uncovered, both your lewdness and your whoredoms.
\p
\v 30 These things shall be done to thee, for that you have played the harlot after the nations, and because you are
polluted with their idols.
\v 31 You have walked in the way of your sister; therefore will I give her cup into your hand.
\v 32 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: You shall drink of your sister’s cup, which is deep and large; you shall be laughed to
scorn and had in derision; it contains much.
\v 33 You shall be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cup of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of your sister
Samaria.
\v 34 You shall even drink it and drain it out, and you shall gnaw the sherds thereof, and shall tear your breasts; for I have
spoken it, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 35 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because you have forgotten me, and cast me behind your back, therefore bear you
also your lewdness and your whoredoms.
\p
\v 36 Jehovah said moreover to me: Son of man, will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? then declare to them their
abominations.
\v 37 For they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands; and with their idols have they committed adultery; and
they have also caused their sons, whom they bare to me, to pass through
the fire to them to be devoured.
\v 38 Moreover this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths.
\v 39 For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and,
lo, thus have they done in the midst of my house.
\v 40 And furthermore you have sent for men that come from far, to whom a messenger was sent, and, lo, they came; for whom
you did wash yourself, paint your eyes, and deck yourself with ornaments,
\v 41 and sit upon a stately bed, with a table prepared before it, whereupon you did set mine incense and mine oil.
\v 42 And the voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and with men of the common sort were brought drunkards from the
wilderness; and they put bracelets upon the hands of them twain, and beautiful crowns upon their heads.
\p
\v 43 Then said I of her that was old in adulteries, Now will they play the harlot with her, and she
with them.
\v 44 And they went in to her, as they go in to a harlot: so went they in to Oholah and to Oholibah, the lewd women.
\v 45 And righteous men, they shall judge them with the judgment of adulteresses, and with the judgment of women that shed
blood; because they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
\v 46 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: I will bring up a company against them, and will give them to be tossed to and fro and
robbed.
\v 47 And the company shall stone them with stones, and despatch them with their swords; they shall kill their sons and their
daughters, and burn up their houses with fire.
\v 48 Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught not to do after your lewdness.
\v 49 And they shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and you shall bear the sins of your idols; and you shall know that I am
the Lord Jehovah.