\c 24
\p
\v 1 Again, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day
of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, write you the name of the day, even of this selfsame day: the king of Babylon drew close to
Jerusalem this selfsame day.
\v 3 And utter a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Set on the caldron, set it
on, and also pour water into it:
\v 4 gather the pieces thereof into it, even every good piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones.
\v 5 Take the choice of the flock, and also a pile of wood for the bones under
the caldron; make it boil well; yea, let the bones thereof be boiled in the midst of it.
\p
\v 6 Wherefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Woe to the bloody city, to the caldron whose rust is therein, and whose rust is not
gone out of it! take out of it piece after piece; No lot is fallen upon it.
\v 7 For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it upon the bare rock; she poured it not upon the ground, to cover it with
dust.
\v 8 That it may cause wrath to come up to take vengeance, I have set her blood upon the bare rock, that it should not be
covered.
\v 9 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Woe to the bloody city! I also will make the pile great.
\v 10 Heap on the wood, make the fire hot, boil well the flesh, and make thick the broth, and let the bones be burned.
\v 11 Then set it empty upon the coals thereof, that it may be hot, and the brass thereof may burn, and that the filthiness of
it may be molten in it, that the rust of it may be consumed.
\v 12 She has wearied herself with toil; yet her great rust goes not forth out of her; her rust
goes not forth by fire.
\v 13 In your filthiness is lewdness: because I have cleansed you and you was not cleansed, you shall not be cleansed from
your filthiness any more, till I have caused my wrath toward you to rest.
\v 14 I, Jehovah, have spoken it: it shall come to pass, and I will do it: I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither
will I repent; according to your ways, and according to your doings, shall they judge thee, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 15 Also the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 16 Son of man, behold, I take away from you the desire of your eyes with a stroke: yet you shall neither mourn nor weep,
neither shall your tears run down.
\v 17 Sigh, but not aloud, make no mourning for the dead; bind your headtire upon thee, and put your shoes upon your feet, and
cover not your lips, and eat not the bread of men.
\v 18 So I spoke to the people in the morning; and at even my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded.
\p
\v 19 And the people said to me, Wilt you not tell us what these things are to us, that you do so?
\v 20 Then I said to them, The word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 21 Speak to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your
power, the desire of your eyous, and that which your soul pitieth; and your sons and your daughters whom you have left behind
shall fall by the sword.
\v 22 And you shall do as I have done: you shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men.
\v 23 And your tires shall be upon your heads, and your shoes upon your feet: you shall not mourn nor weep; but you shall pine
away in your iniquities, and moan one toward another.
\v 24 Thus shall Ezekiel be to you a sign; according to all that he has done shall you do: when this cometh, then shall you
know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 25 And thou, son of man, shall it not be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire
of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their heart, their sons and their daughters,
\v 26 that in that day he that escapes shall come to you, to cause you to hear it with your ears?
\v 27 In that day shall your mouth be opened to him that is escaped, and you shall speak, and be no more dumb: so shall you be
a sign to them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.