\c 26
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first day
of the month, that the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, because that Tyre has said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken
that was the gate of the peoples; she is turned to me; I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste:
\v 3 therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I am against thee, O Tyre, and will cause many nations to come up against
thee, as the sea causes its waves to come up.
\v 4 And they shall destroy the walls of Tyre, and break down her towers: I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her a
bare rock.
\v 5 She shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea; for I have spoken it, says the Lord Jehovah; and
she shall become a spoil to the nations.
\v 6 And her daughters that are in the field shall be slain with the sword: and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 7 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring upon Tyre Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, king of kings, from the
north, with horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and a company, and much people.
\v 8 He shall kill with the sword your daughters in the field; and he shall make forts against thee, and cast up a mound against
thee, and raise up the buckler against thee.
\v 9 And he shall set his battering engines against your walls, and with his axes he shall break down your towers.
\v 10 By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover thee: your walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen,
and of the wagons, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into your gates, as men enter into a city wherein is made a breach.
\v 11 With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all your streets; he shall kill your people with the sword; and the
pillars of your strength shall go down to the ground.
\v 12 And they shall make a spoil of your riches, and make a prey of your merchandise; and they shall break down your walls, and
destroy your pleasant houses; and they shall lay your stones and your timber and your dust in the midst of the waters.
\v 13 And I will cause the noise of your songs to cease; and the sound of your harps shall be no more heard.
\v 14 And I will make you a bare rock; you shall be a place for the spreading of nets; you shall be built no more: for I
Jehovah have spoken it, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 15 Thus says the Lord Jehovah to Tyre: shall not the isles shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan, when the
slaughter is made in the midst of thee?
\v 16 Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones, and lay aside their robes, and strip off their
broidered garments: they shall clothe themselves with trembling; they shall sit upon the ground, and shall tremble every
moment, and be astonished at thee.
\v 17 And they shall take up a lamentation over thee, and say to thee, How are you destroyed, that was inhabited by seafaring
men, the renowned city, that was strong in the sea, she and her inhabitants, that caused their terror to be on all that lived
there!
\v 18 Now shall the isles tremble in the day of your fall; yea, the isles that are in the sea shall be dismayed at your
departure.
\p
\v 19 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: When I shall make you a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I
shall bring up the deep upon thee, and the great waters shall cover thee;
\v 20 then will I bring you down with them that descend into the pit, to the people of old time, and will make you to dwell
in the nether parts of the earth, in the places that are desolate of old, with them that go down to the pit, that you be not
inhabited; and I will set glory in the land of the living.
\v 21 I will make you a terror, and you shall no more have any being; yough you be sought for, yet shall you never be
found again, says the Lord Jehovah.