\c 27
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
\v 2 And thou, son of man, take up a lamentation over Tyre;
\v 3 and say to Tyre, O you that live at the entry of the sea, that are the merchant of the peoples to many isles,
thus says the Lord Jehovah: Thou, O Tyre, have said, I am perfect in beauty.
\v 4 Your borders are in the heart of the seas; your builders have perfected your beauty.
\v 5 They have made all your planks of fir-trees from Senir; they have taken a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for thee.
\v 6 Of the oaks of Bashan have they made your oars; they have made your benches of ivory inlaid in boxwood, from the isles of
Kittim.
\v 7 Of fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was your sail, that it might be to you for an ensign; blue and purple from
the isles of Elishah was your awning.
\v 8 The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers: your wise men, O Tyre, were in thee, they were your pilots.
\v 9 The old men of Gebal and the wise men thereof were in you your calkers: all the ships of the sea with their mariners were
in you to deal in your merchandise.
\v 10 Persia and Lud and Put were in your army, your men of war: they hanged the shield and helmet in thee; they set forth your
comeliness.
\v 11 The men of Arvad with your army were upon your walls round about, and valorous men were in your towers; they hanged their
shields upon your walls round about; they have perfected your beauty.
\p
\v 12 Tarshish was your merchant by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they
traded for your wares.
\v 13 Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were your traffickers; they traded the persons of men and vessels of brass for your
merchandise.
\v 14 They of the house of Togarmah traded for your wares with horses and war-horses and mules.
\v 15 The men of Dedan were your traffickers; many isles were the mart of your hand: they brought you in exchange horns of ivory
and ebony.
\v 16 Syria was your merchant by reason of the multitude of your handiworks: they traded for your wares with emeralds, purple, and
broidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and rubies.
\v 17 Judah, and the land of Israel, they were your traffickers: they traded for your merchandise wheat of Minnith, and pannag,
and honey, and oil, and balm.
\v 18 Damascus was your merchant for the multitude of your handiworks, by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches, with
the wine of Helbon, and white wool.
\v 19 Vedan and Javan traded with yarn for your wares: bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were among your merchandise.
\v 20 Dedan was your trafficker in precious cloths for riding.
\v 21 Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they were the merchants of your hand; in lambs, and rams, and goats, in these were
they your merchants.
\v 22 The traffickers of Sheba and Raamah, they were your traffickers; they traded for your wares with the chief of all spices,
and with all precious stones, and gold.
\v 23 Haran and Canneh and Eden, the traffickers of Sheba, Asshur
and Chilmad, were your traffickers.
\v 24 These were your traffickers in choice wares, in wrappings of blue and broidered work, and in chests of rich apparel, bound
with cords and made of cedar, among your merchandise.
\v 25 The ships of Tarshish were your caravans for your merchandise: and you was replenished, and made very glorious in the
heart of the seas.
\p
\v 26 Your rowers have brought you into great waters: the east wind has broken you in the heart of the seas.
\v 27 Your riches, and your wares, your merchandise, your mariners, and your pilots, your calkers, and the dealers in your
merchandise, and all your men of war, that are in thee, with all your company which is in the midst of thee, shall fall into the
heart of the seas in the day of your ruin.
\v 28 At the sound of the cry of your pilots the suburbs shall shake.
\v 29 And all that handle the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots of the sea, shall come down from their ships;
they shall stand upon the land,
\v 30 and shall cause their voice to be heard over thee, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust upon their heads; they
shall wallow themselves in the ashes:
\v 31 and they shall make themselves bald for you, and gird them with sackcloth, and they shall weep for you in bitterness of
soul with bitter mourning.
\v 32 And in their wailing they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and lament over thee,
saying, Who is there like Tyre, like her that is brought to silence in the midst of the sea?
\v 33 When your wares went forth out of the seas, you filled many peoples; you did enrich the kings of the earth with the
multitude of your riches and of your merchandise.
\v 34 In the time that you was broken by the seas in the depths of the waters, your merchandise and all your company did fall
in the midst of thee.
\v 35 All the inhabitants of the isles are astonished at thee, and their kings are horribly afraid; they are troubled in their
countenance.
\v 36 The merchants among the peoples hiss at thee; you are become a terror, and you shall nevermore have any being.