\c 28
\p
\v 1 The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, say to the prince of Tyre, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because your heart is lifted up, and you have said,
I am a god, I sit in the seat of God, in the midst of the seas; yet you are man, and not God, yough you did set your heare
as the heart of God;—
\v 3 behold, you are wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that is hidden from thee;
\v 4 by your wisdom and by your understanding you have gotten you riches, and have gotten gold and silver into your treasures;
\v 5 by your great wisdom and by your traffic have you increased your riches, and your heart is lifted up because of your
riches;—
\v 6 therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because you have set your heart as the heart of God,
\v 7 therefore, behold, I will bring strangers upon thee, the terrible of the nations; and they shall draw their swords against
the beauty of your wisdom, and they shall defile your brightness.
\v 8 They shall bring you down to the pit; and you shall die the death of them that are slain, in the heart of the seas.
\v 9 Wilt you yet say before him that kills thee, I am God? but you are man, and not God, in the hand of him that woundeth
thee.
\v 10 You shall die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken it, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 12 Son of man, take up a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: You sealest up
the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.
\v 13 You was in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was your covering, the sardius, the topaz, and the diamond, the
beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold: the workmanship of your tabrets and of
your pipes was in thee; in the day that you was created they were prepared.
\v 14 You was the anointed cherub that covereth: and I set thee,
so that you was upon the holy mountain of God; you have walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.
\v 15 You was perfect in your ways from the day that you was created, till unrighteousness was found in thee.
\v 16 By the abundance of your traffic they filled the midst of you with violence, and you have sinned: therefore have I cast
you as profane out of the mountain of God; and I have destroyed you, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
\v 17 Your heart was lifted up because of your beauty; you have corrupted your wisdom by reason of your brightness: I have cast
you to the ground; I have laid you before kings, that they may behold you.
\v 18 By the multitude of your iniquities, in the unrighteousness of your traffic, you have profaned your sanctuaries;
therefore have I brought forth a fire from the midst of you; it has devoured you, and I have turned you to ashes upon the
earth in the sight of all them that behold thee.
\v 19 All they that know you among the peoples shall be astonished at you: you are become a terror, and you shall nevermore
have any being.
\p
\v 20 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 21 Son of man, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,
\v 22 and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Sidon; and I will be glorified in the midst of thee;
and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be sanctified in her.
\v 23 For I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the wounded shall fall in the midst of her, with the
sword upon her on every side; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 24 And there shall be no more a pricking brier to the house of Israel, nor a hurting thorn of any that are round about
them, that did despite to them; and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 25 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are
scattered, and shall be sanctified in them in the sight of the nations, then shall they dwell in their own land which I gave to
my servant Jacob.
\v 26 And they shall dwell securely therein; yea, they shall build houses, and plant vineyards, and shall dwell securely, when
I have executed judgments upon all those that do them despite round about them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah their
God.