\c 29
\p
\v 1 In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth
day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt;
\v 3 speak, and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great monster that
lies in the midst of his rivers, that has said, My river is mine own, and I have made it for myself.
\v 4 And I will put hooks in your jaws, and I will cause the fish of your rivers to stick to your scales; and I will bring you
up out of the midst of your rivers, with all the fish of your rivers which stick to your scales.
\v 5 And I will cast you forth into the wilderness, you and all the fish of your rivers: you shall fall upon the open field;
you shall not be brought together, nor gathered; I have given you for food to the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the
heavens.
\v 6 And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of
Israel.
\v 7 When they took hold of you by your hand, you did break, and did rend all their shoulders; and when they leaned upon
thee, you brakest, and made all their loins to be at a stand.
\p
\v 8 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring a sword upon you, and will cut off from you man and beast.
\v 9 And the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste; and they shall know that I am Jehovah. Because he has said, The
river is mine, and I have made it;
\v 10 therefore, behold, I am against thee, and against your rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and
desolation, from the tower of Seveneh even to the border of Ethiopia.
\v 11 No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.
\v 12 And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities among the
cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will
disperse them through the countries.
\p
\v 13 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples whither they were
scattered;
\v 14 and I will bring back the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of
their birth; and they shall be there a base kingdom.
\v 15 It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it any more lift itself up above the nations: and I will diminish
them, that they shall no more rule over the nations.
\v 16 And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to remembrance, when they turn to look
after them: and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 17 And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first
month, in the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 18 Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre: every head was made
bald, and every shoulder was worn; yet had he no wages, nor his army, from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it.
\v 19 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he
shall carry off her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army.
\v 20 I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he served, because they wrought for me, says the Lord
Jehovah.
\p
\v 21 In that day will I cause a horn to bud forth to the house of Israel, and I will give you the opening of the mouth in
the midst of them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.