\c 32
\p
\v 1 And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in the first
day of the month, that the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, take up a lamentation over Pharaoh king of Egypt, and say to him, You was likened to a young lion of the
nations: yet are you as a monster in the seas; and you did break forth with your rivers, and troubled the waters with your
feet, and fouledst their rivers.
\v 3 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: I will spread out my net upon you with a company of many peoples; and they shall bring you
up in my net.
\v 4 And I will leave you upon the land, I will cast you forth upon the open field, and will cause all the birds of the
heavens to settle upon thee, and I will satisfy the beasts of the whole earth with thee.
\v 5 And I will lay your flesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleys with your height.
\v 6 I will also water with your blood the land wherein you swimmest, even to the mountains; and the watercourses shall be full
of thee.
\v 7 And when I shall extinguish thee, I will cover the heavens, and make the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with a
cloud, and the moon shall not give its light.
\v 8 All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon your land, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 9 I will also vex the hearts of many peoples, when I shall bring your destruction among the nations, into the countries which
you have not known.
\v 10 Yea, I will make many peoples amazed at thee, and their kings shall be horribly afraid for thee, when I shall brandish my
sword before them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his own life, in the day of your fall.
\p
\v 11 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon thee.
\v 12 By the swords of the mighty will I cause your multitude to fall; the terrible of the nations are they all: and they shall
bring to nothing the pride of Egypt, and all the multitude thereof shall be destroyed.
\v 13 I will destroy also all the beasts thereof from beside many waters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them any more,
nor the hoofs of beasts trouble them.
\v 14 Then will I make their waters clear, and cause their rivers to run like oil, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 15 When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate and waste, a land destitute of that whereof it was full, when I shall strike
all them that dwell therein, then shall they know that I am Jehovah.
\v 16 This is the lamentation wherewith they shall lament; the daughters of the nations shall lament therewith; over Egypt, and
over all her multitude, shall they lament therewith, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 17 It came to pass also in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth
day of the month, that the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 18 Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even her, and the daughters of the famous nations, to
the nether parts of the earth, with them that go down into the pit.
\v 19 Whom do you pass in beauty? go down, and be you laid with the uncircumcised.
\v 20 They shall fall in the midst of them that are slain by the sword: she is delivered to the sword; draw her away and all
her multitudes.
\v 21 The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst of Sheol with them that help him: they are gone down,
they lie still, even the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.
\p
\v 22 Asshur is there and all her company; her graves are round about her; all of them slain, fallen by the sword;
\v 23 whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the pit, and her company is round about her grave; all of them slain,
fallen by the sword, who caused terror in the land of the living.
\p
\v 24 There is Elam and all her multitude round about her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who are gone down
uncircumcised into the nether parts of the earth, who caused their terror in the land of the living, and have borne their shame
with them that go down to the pit.
\v 25 They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her multitude; her graves are round about her; all of them
uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for their terror was caused in the land of the living, and they have borne their shame with
them that go down to the pit: he is put in the midst of them that are slain.
\p
\v 26 There is Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude; their graves are round about them; all of them uncircumcised, slain by
the sword; for they caused their terror in the land of the living.
\v 27 And they shall not lie with the mighty that are fallen of the uncircumcised, that are gone down to Sheol with their
weapons of war, and have laid their swords under their heads, and their iniquities are upon their bones; for
they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.
\v 28 But you shall be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised, and shall lie with them that are slain by the sword.
\p
\v 29 There is Edom, her kings and all her princes, who in their might are laid with them that are slain by the sword: they
shall lie with the uncircumcised, and with them that go down to the pit.
\v 30 There are the princes of the north, all of them, and all the Sidonians, who are gone down with the slain; in the terror
which they caused by their might they are put to shame; and they lie uncircumcised with them that are slain by the sword, and
bear their shame with them that go down to the pit.
\p
\v 31 Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword,
says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 32 For I have put his terror in the land of the living; and he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised, with them
that are slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the Lord Jehovah.