\c 33
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, speak to the children of your people, and say to them, When I bring the sword upon a land, and the people of
the land take a man from among them, and set him for their watchman;
\v 3 if, when he sees the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;
\v 4 then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet, and takes not warning, if the sword come, and take him away, his blood
shall be upon his own head.
\v 5 He heard the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; his blood shall be upon him; whereas if he had taken warning, he
would have delivered his soul.
\v 6 But if the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned, and the sword come, and
take any person from among them; he is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman’s hand.
\p
\v 7 So thou, son of man, I have set you a watchman to the house of Israel; therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give
them warning from me.
\v 8 When I say to the wicked, O wicked man, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked from his way;
that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at your hand.
\v 9 Nevertheless, if you warn the wicked of his way to turn from it, and he turn not from his way; he shall die in his
iniquity, but you have delivered your soul.
\p
\v 10 And thou, son of man, say to the house of Israel: Thus you speak, saying, Our transgressions and our sins are upon us,
and we pine away in them; how then can we live?
\v 11 Say to them, As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn
from his way and live: turn you, turn you from your evil ways; for why will you die, O house of Israel?
\v 12 And thou, son of man, say to the children of your people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him in
the day of his transgression; and as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turns
from his wickedness; neither shall he that is righteous be able to live thereby in the day that he sinneth.
\v 13 When I say to the righteous, that he shall surely live; if he trust to his righteousness, and commit iniquity, none of
his righteous deeds shall be remembered; but in his iniquity that he has committed, therein shall he die.
\v 14 Again, when I say to the wicked, You shall surely die; if he turn from his sin, and do that which is lawful and right;
\v 15 if the wicked restore the pledge, give again that which he had taken by robbery, walk in the statutes of life, committing
no iniquity; he shall surely live, he shall not die.
\v 16 None of his sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him: he has done that which is lawful and right; he
shall surely live.
\p
\v 17 Yet the children of your people say, The way of the Lord is not equal: but as for them, their way is not equal.
\v 18 When the righteous turns from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, he shall even die therein.
\v 19 And when the wicked turns from his wickedness, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall live thereby.
\v 20 Yet you say, The way of the Lord is not equal. O house of Israel, I will judge you every one after his ways.
\p
\v 21 And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth
month, in the fifth day of the month, that one that had escaped out of Jerusalem came to me, saying, The
city is smitten.
\v 22 Now the hand of Jehovah had been upon me in the evening, before he that was escaped came; and he had opened my mouth,
until he came to me in the morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no more dumb.
\p
\v 23 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 24 Son of man, they that inhabit those waste places in the land of Israel speak, saying, Abraham was one, and he inherited
the land: but we are many; the land is given us for inheritance.
\v 25 Wherefore say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: You eat with the blood, and lift up your eyes to your idols, and
shed blood: and shall you possess the land?
\v 26 You stand upon your sword, you work abomination, and you defile every one his neighbor’s wife: and shall you possess the
land?
\v 27 Thus shall you say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: As I live, surely they that are in the waste places shall
fall by the sword; and him that is in the open field will I give to the beasts to be devoured; and they that are in the
strongholds and in the caves shall die of the pestilence.
\v 28 And I will make the land a desolation and an astonishment; and the pride of her power shall cease; and the mountains of
Israel shall be desolate, so that none shall pass through.
\v 29 Then shall they know that I am Jehovah, when I have made the land a desolation and an astonishment, because of all their
abominations which they have committed.
\p
\v 30 And as for you, son of man, the children of your people talk of you by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and
speak one to another, every one to his brother, saying, Come, I pray you, and hear what is the word that comes forth from
Jehovah.
\v 31 And they come to you as the people cometh, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear your words, but do them
not; for with their mouth they show much love, but their heart goes after their gain.
\v 32 And, lo, you are to them as a very lovely song of one that has a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument;
for they hear your words, but they do them not.
\v 33 And when this comes to pass (behold, it comes), then shall they know that a prophet has been among them.