\c 34
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say to them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the
Lord Jehovah: Woe to the shepherds of Israel that do feed themselves! should not the shepherds feed the sheep?
\v 3 You eat the fat, and you clothe you with the wool, you kill the fatlings; but you feed not the sheep.
\v 4 The diseased have you not strengthened, neither have you healed that which was sick, neither have you bound up that which was
broken, neither have you brought back that which was driven away, neither have you sought that which was lost; but with force and
with rigor have you ruled over them.
\v 5 And they were scattered, because there was no shepherd; and they became food to all the beasts of the field, and were
scattered.
\v 6 My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and upon every high hill: yea, my sheep were scattered upon all the face of
the earth; and there was none that did search or seek after
them.
\p
\v 7 Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of Jehovah:
\v 8 As I live, says the Lord Jehovah, surely forasmuch as my sheep became a prey, and my sheep became food to all the beasts
of the field, because there was no shepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my sheep, but the shepherds fed themselves,
and fed not my sheep;
\v 9 therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of Jehovah:
\v 10 Thus says the Lord Jehovah, Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my sheep at their hand, and cause
them to cease from feeding the sheep; neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; and I will deliver my sheep from
their mouth, that they may not be food for them.
\p
\v 11 For thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I myself, even I, will search for my sheep, and will seek them out.
\v 12 As a shepherd seeks out his flock in the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered abroad, so will I seek out
my sheep; and I will deliver them out of all places whither they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day.
\v 13 And I will bring them out from the peoples, and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land;
and I will feed them upon the mountains of Israel, by the watercourses, and in all the inhabited places of the country.
\v 14 I will feed them with good pasture; and upon the mountains of the height of Israel shall their fold be: there shall they
lie down in a good fold; and on fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel.
\v 15 I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will cause them to lie down, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 16 I will seek that which was lost, and will bring back that which was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken,
and will strengthen that which was sick: but the fat and the strong I will destroy; I will feed them in justice.
\p
\v 17 And as for you, O my flock, thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, the rams and the
he-goats.
\v 18 Seemeth it a small thing to you to have fed upon the good pasture, but you must tread down with your feet the residue of
your pasture? and to have drunk of the clear waters, but you must foul the residue with your feet?
\v 19 And as for my sheep, they eat that which you have trodden with your feet, and they drink that which you have fouled with
your feet.
\p
\v 20 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah to them: Behold, I, even I, will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep.
\v 21 Because you thrust with side and with shoulder, and push all the diseased with your horns, till you have scattered them
abroad;
\v 22 therefore will I save my flock, and they shall no more be a prey; and I will judge between sheep and sheep.
\v 23 And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall
be their shepherd.
\v 24 And I, Jehovah, will be their God, and my servant David prince among them; I, Jehovah, have spoken it.
\p
\v 25 And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause evil beasts to cease out of the land; and they shall dwell
securely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.
\v 26 And I will make them and the places round about my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in its
season; there shall be showers of blessing.
\v 27 And the tree of the field shall yield its fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in
their land; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have broken the bars of their yoke, and have delivered them out of
the hand of those that made bondmen of them.
\v 28 And they shall no more be a prey to the nations, neither shall the beasts of the earth devour them; but they shall dwell
securely, and none shall make them afraid.
\v 29 And I will raise up to them a plantation for renown, and they shall be no more consumed with famine in the land,
neither bear the shame of the nations any more.
\v 30 And they shall know that I, Jehovah, their God am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, says the
Lord Jehovah.
\v 31 And you my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, are men, and I am your God, says the Lord Jehovah.