\c 35
\p
\v 1 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, set your face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
\v 3 and say to it, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O mount Seir, and I will stretch out my hand
against you, and I will make you a desolation and an astonishment.
\v 4 I will lay your cities waste, and you shall be desolate; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 5 Because you have had a perpetual enmity, and have given over the children of Israel to the power of the sword in the time
of their calamity, in the time of the iniquity of the end;
\v 6 therefore, as I live, says the Lord Jehovah, I will prepare you to blood, and blood shall pursue you: since you have
not hated blood, therefore blood shall pursue thee.
\v 7 Thus will I make mount Seir an astonishment and a desolation; and I will cut off from it him that passes through and him
that returneth.
\v 8 And I will fill its mountains with its slain: in your hills and in your valleys and in all your watercourses shall they fall
that are slain with the sword.
\v 9 I will make you a perpetual desolation, and your cities shall not be inhabited; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 10 Because you have said, These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it; whereas Jehovah
was there:
\v 11 therefore, as I live, says the Lord Jehovah, I will do according to your anger, and according to your envy which you
have showed out of your hatred against them; and I will make myself known among them, when I shall judge thee.
\v 12 And you shall know that I, Jehovah, have heard all your revilings which you have spoken against the mountains of Israel,
saying, They are laid desolate, they are given us to devour.
\v 13 And you have magnified yourselves against me with your mouth, and have multiplied your words against me: I have heard it.
\v 14 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: When the whole earth rejoiceth, I will make you desolate.
\v 15 As you did rejoice over the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so will I do to thee: you
shall be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Edom, even all of it; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.