\c 36
\p
\v 1 And thou, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, You mountains of Israel, hear the word of Jehovah.
\v 2 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because the enemy has said against you, Aha! and, The ancient high places are ours in
possession;
\v 3 therefore prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because, even because they have made you desolate, and swallowed
you up on every side, that you might be a possession to the residue of the nations, and you are taken up in the lips of
talkers, and the evil report of the people;
\v 4 therefore, you mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Jehovah: Thus says the Lord Jehovah to the mountains and to
the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys, to the desolate wastes and to the cities that are forsaken, which are become
a prey and derision to the residue of the nations that are round about;
\v 5 therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Surely in the fire of my jealousy have I spoken against the residue of the nations,
and against all Edom, that have appointed my land to themselves for a possession with the joy of all their heart, with
despite of soul, to cast it out for a prey.
\v 6 Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to
the valleys, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I have spoken in my jealousy and in my wrath, because you have borne the shame
of the nations:
\v 7 therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: I have sworn, saying, Surely the nations that are round about you, they
shall bear their shame.
\p
\v 8 But you, O mountains of Israel, you shall shoot forth your branches, and yield your fruit to my people Israel; for they are
at hand to come.
\v 9 For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn into you, and you shall be tilled and sown;
\v 10 and I will multiply men upon you, all the house of Israel, even all of it; and the cities shall be inhabited, and the
waste places shall be builded;
\v 11 and I will multiply upon you man and beast; and they shall increase and be fruitful; and I will cause you to be inhabited
after your former estate, and will do better to you than at your beginnings: and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 12 Yea, I will cause men to walk upon you, even my people Israel; and they shall possess thee, and you shall be their
inheritance, and you shall no more henceforth bereave them of children.
\v 13 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Because they say to you, You
land are a devourer of men, and have been a bereaver of your nation;
\v 14 therefore you shall devour men no more, neither bereave your nation any more, says the Lord Jehovah;
\v 15 neither will I let you hear any more the shame of the nations, neither shall you bear the reproach of the peoples any
more, neither shall you cause your nation to stumble any more, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 16 Moreover the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 17 Son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their way and by their doings: their way
before me was as the uncleanness of a woman in her impurity.
\v 18 Wherefore I poured out my wrath upon them for the blood which they had poured out upon the land, and because they had
defiled it with their idols;
\v 19 and I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries: according to their way and
according to their doings I judged them.
\v 20 And when they came to the nations, whither they went, they profaned my holy name; in that men said of them, These are
the people of Jehovah, and are gone forth out of his land.
\v 21 But I had regard for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations, whither they went.
\p
\v 22 Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: I do not
this for your sake, O house of Israel, but for my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations, whither you
went.
\v 23 And I will sanctify my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in the midst of
them; and the nations shall know that I am Jehovah, says the Lord Jehovah, when I shall be sanctified in you before their
eyes.
\v 24 For I will take you from among the nations, and gather you out of all the countries, and will bring you into your own
land.
\v 25 And I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will
I cleanse you.
\v 26 A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you; and I will take away the stony heart out of
your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh.
\v 27 And I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep mine ordinances, and do
them.
\v 28 And you shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and you shall be my people, and I will be your God.
\v 29 And I will save you from all your uncleannesses: and I will call for the grain, and will multiply it, and lay no famine
upon you.
\v 30 And I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase of the field, that you may receive no more the reproach of
famine among the nations.
\v 31 Then shall you remember your evil ways, and your doings that were not good; and you shall loathe yourselves in your own
sight for your iniquities and for your abominations.
\p
\v 32 Nor for your sake do I this, says the Lord Jehovah, be it known to you: be ashamed and confounded for your
ways, O house of Israel.
\v 33 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: In the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be
inhabited, and the waste places shall be builded.
\v 34 And the land that was desolate shall be tilled, whereas it was a desolation in the sight of all that passed by.
\v 35 And they shall say, This land that was desolate is become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined
cities are fortified and inhabited.
\v 36 Then the nations that are left round about you shall know that I, Jehovah, have builded the ruined places, and planted
that which was desolate: I, Jehovah, have spoken it, and I will do it.
\p
\v 37 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: For this, moreover, will I be inquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them: I will
increase them with men like a flock.
\v 38 As the flock for sacrifice, as the flock of Jerusalem in her appointed feasts, so shall the waste cities be filled with
flocks of men; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.