\c 37
\p
\v 1 The hand of Jehovah was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of Jehovah, and set me down in the midst of the
valley; and it was full of bones.
\v 2 And he caused me to pass by them round about: and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, they were
very dry.
\v 3 And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord Jehovah, you knowest.
\v 4 Again he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O you dry bones, hear the word of Jehovah.
\v 5 Thus says the Lord Jehovah to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and you shall live.
\v 6 And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you
shall live; and you shall know that I am Jehovah.
\p
\v 7 So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and, behold, an earthquake; and the bones came
together, bone to its bone.
\v 8 And I beheld, and, lo, there were sinews upon them, and flesh came up, and skin covered them above; but there was no
breath in them.
\v 9 Then said he to me, Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Come
from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.
\v 10 So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an
exceeding great army.
\p
\v 11 Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried up,
and our hope is lost; we are clean cut off.
\v 12 Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will open your graves, and cause you to
come up out of your graves, O my people; and I will bring you into the land of Israel.
\v 13 And you shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have opened your graves, and caused you to come up out of your graves, O my
people.
\v 14 And I will put my Spirit in you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land: and you shall know that I,
Jehovah, have spoken it and performed it, says Jehovah.
\p
\v 15 The word of Jehovah came again to me, saying,
\v 16 And thou, son of man, take you one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions:
then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and
for all the house of Israel his companions:
\v 17 and join them for you one to another into one stick, that they may become one in your hand.
\v 18 And when the children of your people shall speak to thee, saying, Wilt you not show us what you meanest by these?
\v 19 say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and
the tribes of Israel his companions; and I will put them with it,
even with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in my hand.
\v 20 And the sticks whereon you writest shall be in your hand before their eyes.
\v 21 And say to them, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations,
whither they are gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land:
\v 22 and I will make them one nation in the land, upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all; and
they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all;
\v 23 neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their
transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling-places, wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so
shall they be my people, and I will be their God.
\p
\v 24 And my servant David shall be king over them; and they all shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in mine
ordinances, and observe my statutes, and do them.
\v 25 And they shall dwell in the land that I have given to Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers dwelt; and they shall
dwell therein, they, and their children, and their children’s children, for ever: and David my servant shall be their prince
for ever.
\v 26 Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will place them,
and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.
\v 27 My tabernacle also shall be with them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
\v 28 And the nations shall know that I am Jehovah that sanctifieth Israel, when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for
evermore.