\c 38
\p
\v 1 And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying,
\v 2 Son of man, set your face toward Gog, of the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against
him,
\v 3 and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal:
\v 4 and I will turn you about, and put hooks into your jaws, and I will bring you forth, and all your army, horses and
horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great company with buckler and shield, all of them handling swords:
\v 5 Persia, Cush, and Put with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
\v 6 Gomer, and all his hordes; the house of Togarmah in the uttermost parts of the north, and all his hordes; even many
peoples with thee.
\p
\v 7 Be you prepared, yea, prepare yourself, you, and all your companies that are assembled to thee, and be you a guard to
them.
\v 8 After many days you shall be visited: in the latter years you shall come into the land that is brought back from the
sword, that is gathered out of many peoples, upon the mountains of Israel, which have been a continual waste; but it is brought
forth out of the peoples, and they shall dwell securely, all of them.
\v 9 And you shall ascend, you shall come like a storm, you shall be like a cloud to cover the land, you, and all your
hordes, and many peoples with thee.
\p
\v 10 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: It shall come to pass in that day, that things shall come into your mind, and you shall
devise an evil device:
\v 11 and you shall say, I will go up to the land of unwalled villages; I will go to them that are at rest, that dwell
securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars nor gates;
\v 12 to take the spoil and to take the prey; to turn your hand against the waste places that are
now inhabited, and against the people that are gathered out of the nations, that have gotten cattle and goods, that
dwell in the middle of the earth.
\v 13 Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the young lions thereof, shall say to thee, Are you come to
take the spoil? have you assembled your company to take the prey? to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods,
to take great spoil?
\p
\v 14 Therefore, son of man, prophesy, and say to Gog, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: In that day when my people Israel
lives securely, shall you not know it?
\v 15 And you shall come from your place out of the uttermost parts of the north, you, and many peoples with thee, all of them
riding upon horses, a great company and a mighty army;
\v 16 and you shall come up against my people Israel, as a cloud to cover the land: it shall come to pass in the latter days,
that I will bring you against my land, that the nations may know me, when I shall be sanctified in you, O Gog, before their
eyes.
\p
\v 17 Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Are you he of whom I spoke in old time by my servants the prophets of Israel, that
prophesied in those days for many years that I would bring you against them?
\v 18 And it shall come to pass in that day, when Gog shall come against the land of Israel, says the Lord Jehovah, that my
wrath shall come up into my nostrils.
\v 19 For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the
land of Israel;
\v 20 so that the fishes of the sea, and the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that
creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the face of the earth, shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall
be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.
\v 21 And I will call for a sword against him to all my mountains, says the Lord Jehovah: every man’s sword shall be against
his brother.
\v 22 And with pestilence and with blood will I enter into judgment with him; and I will rain upon him, and upon his hordes,
and upon the many peoples that are with him, an overflowing shower, and great hailstones, fire, and brimstone.
\v 23 And I will magnify myself, and sanctify myself, and I will make myself known in the eyes of many nations; and they shall
know that I am Jehovah.