\c 39
\p
\v 1 And thou, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus says the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, prince
of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal:
\v 2 and I will turn you about, and will lead you on, and will cause you to come up from the uttermost parts of the north;
and I will bring you upon the mountains of Israel;
\v 3 and I will strike your bow out of your left hand, and will cause your arrows to fall out of your right hand.
\v 4 You shall fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou, and all your hordes, and the peoples that are with thee: I will give
you to the ravenous birds of every sort, and to the beasts of the field to be devoured.
\v 5 You shall fall upon the open field; for I have spoken it, says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 6 And I will send a fire on Magog, and on them that dwell securely in the isles; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
\v 7 And my holy name will I make known in the midst of my people Israel; neither will I suffer my holy name to be profaned any
more: and the nations shall know that I am Jehovah, the Holy One in Israel.
\v 8 Behold, it cometh, and it shall be done, says the Lord Jehovah; this is the day whereof I have spoken.
\v 9 And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, and shall make fires of the weapons and burn them, both the
shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves, and the spears, and they shall make fires of them seven
years;
\v 10 so that they shall take no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of the forests; for they shall make fires of
the weapons; and they shall plunder those that plundered them, and rob those that robbed them, says the Lord Jehovah.
\p
\v 11 And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the valley of them that
pass through on the east of the sea; and it shall stop them that pass through: and there shall they bury Gog and all his
multitude; and they shall call it The valley of Hamon-gog.
\v 12 And seven months shall the house of Israel be burying them, that they may cleanse the land.
\v 13 Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to them a renown in the day that I shall be glorified,
says the Lord Jehovah.
\v 14 And they shall set apart men of continual employment, that shall pass through the land, and, with them that pass through,
those that bury them that remain upon the face of the land, to cleanse it: after the end of seven months shall they search.
\v 15 And they that pass through the land shall pass through; and when any sees a man’s bone, then shall he set up a sign by
it, till the buriers have buried it in the valley of Hamon-gog.
\v 16 And Hamonah shall also be the name of a city. Thus shall they cleanse the land.
\p
\v 17 And thou, son of man, thus says the Lord Jehovah: Speak to the birds of every sort, and to every beast of the field,
Assemble yourselves, and come; gather yourselves on every side to my sacrifice that I do sacrifice for you, even a great
sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, that you may eat flesh and drink blood.
\v 18 You shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats,
of bullocks, all of them fatlings of Bashan.
\v 19 And you shall eat fat till you be full, and drink blood till you be drunken, of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for
you.
\v 20 And you shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war, says the Lord
Jehovah.
\p
\v 21 And I will set my glory among the nations; and all the nations shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand
that I have laid upon them.
\v 22 So the house of Israel shall know that I am Jehovah their God, from that day and forward.
\v 23 And the nations shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity; because they trespassed
against me, and I hid my face from them: so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they fell all of them by the
sword.
\v 24 According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions did I to them; and I hid my face from them.
\p
\v 25 Therefore thus says the Lord Jehovah: Now will I bring back the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house
of Israel; and I will be jealous for my holy name.
\v 26 And they shall bear their shame, and all their trespasses whereby they have trespassed against me, when they shall dwell
securely in their land, and none shall make them afraid;
\v 27 when I have brought them back from the peoples, and gathered them out of their enemies’ lands, and am sanctified in them
in the sight of many nations.
\v 28 And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, in that I caused them to go into captivity among the nations, and have
gathered them to their own land; and I will leave none of them any more there;
\v 29 neither will I hide my face any more from them; for I have poured out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, says the Lord
Jehovah.