\c 43
\p
\v 1 Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looks toward the east.
\v 2 And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice was like the sound of many
waters; and the earth shined with his glory.
\v 3 And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to
destroy the city; and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell upon my face.
\v 4 And the glory of Jehovah came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east.
\v 5 And the Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and, behold, the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
\p
\v 6 And I heard one speaking to me out of the house; and a man stood by me.
\v 7 And he said to me, Son of man, this is the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I
will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel for ever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, neither
they, nor their kings, by their whoredom, and by the dead bodies of their kings
in their high places;
\v 8 in their setting of their threshold by my threshold, and their door-post beside my door-post, and there was
but the wall between me and them; and they have defiled my holy name by their abominations which they have committed:
wherefore I have consumed them in mine anger.
\v 9 Now let them put away their whoredom, and the dead bodies of their kings, far from me; and I will dwell in the midst of
them for ever.
\p
\v 10 Thou, son of man, show the house to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and let them
measure the pattern.
\v 11 And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the form of the house, and the fashion thereof,
and the egresses thereof, and the entrances thereof, and all the forms thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and all the
forms thereof, and all the laws thereof; and write it in their sight; that they may keep the whole form thereof, and all the
ordinances thereof, and do them.
\v 12 This is the law of the house: upon the top of the mountain the whole limit thereof round about shall be most holy.
Behold, this is the law of the house.
\p
\v 13 And these are the measures of the altar by cubits (the cubit is a cubit and a handbreadth): the bottom shall be a cubit,
and the breadth a cubit, and the border thereof by the edge thereof round about a span; and this shall be the base of the
altar.
\v 14 And from the bottom upon the ground to the lower ledge shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the
lesser ledge to the greater ledge shall be four cubits, and the breadth a cubit.
\v 15 And the upper altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar hearth and upward there shall be four horns.
\v 16 And the altar hearth shall be twelve cubits long by twelve broad, square in the four sides thereof.
\v 17 And the ledge shall be fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad in the four sides thereof; and the border about
it shall be half a cubit; and the bottom thereof shall be a cubit round about; and the steps thereof shall look toward the
east.
\p
\v 18 And he said to me, Son of man, thus says the Lord Jehovah: These are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they
shall make it, to offer burnt offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon.
\v 19 You shall give to the priests the Levites that are of the seed of Zadok, who are near to me, to minister to me,
says the Lord Jehovah, a young bullock for a sin-offering.
\v 20 And you shall take of the blood thereof, and put on the four horns of it, and on the four corners of the ledge, and upon
the border round about: thus shall you cleanse it and make atonement for it.
\v 21 You shall also take the bullock of the sin-offering, and it shall be burnt in the appointed place of the house, without
the sanctuary.
\v 22 And on the second day you shall offer a he-goat wiyout blemish for a sin-offering; and they shall cleanse the altar, as
they did cleanse it with the bullock.
\v 23 When you have made an end of cleansing it, you shall offer a young bullock wiyout blemish, and a ram out of the flock
without blemish.
\v 24 And you shall bring them near before Jehovah, and the priests shall cast salt upon them, and they shall offer them up
for a burnt offering to Jehovah.
\v 25 Seven days shall you prepare every day a goat for a sin-offering: they shall also prepare a young bullock, and a ram out
of the flock, without blemish.
\v 26 Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and purify it; so shall they consecrate it.
\v 27 And when they have accomplished the days, it shall be that upon the eighth day, and forward, the priests shall make your
burnt offerings upon the altar, and your peace-offerings; and I will accept you, says the Lord Jehovah.